{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 ArialMT;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial-BoldMT;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial-ItalicMT;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f4\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 SegoeUI;}{\f5\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f6\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial-BoldItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable
{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f0\fs24\b0\i0\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f0\fs24\b0\i0\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f0\fs24\b0\i0\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid3}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0 Future Uses}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 My focus on autocosmics, in its broadest sense, precludes using these ideas solely for creating characters in art; characters surround us, whether self-created or created by others. What arenas of life other than the arts might benefit from resonant interactive characters, or environments?}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 When interacting with media, Reeves and Nass (1996) argue,}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1  \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93people should be able to use what comes naturally \endash  rules for social relationships and rules for navigating the physical world,\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (p.\~255). People already know how to function in the natural world (be polite, how to handle difficult personalities) so designers should take these reactions and phenomena into consideration when designing new media.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi-360\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Using the creature for therapy, like }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "scrivlnk://BA4D4293-7404-4DB8-B599-91F8A147DFF3"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Robin}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "http://www.parorobots.com/"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0 PARO}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , guide dogs etc.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 In a heritage scenario. Dealing with historical characters.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Virtual assistants, Seymour the in-car sensation manager.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0 Future Extensions To Technology}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0
\par\pard\plain \li720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 As Tale of Tales\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 Samyn says, }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93simulate sensorial sensations for which output hardware does not exist (yet)\u8221\'94.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Am I going towards direct manipulation, or NUIs? Like Seymour the in-car expert. Moving away from WIMP interfaces.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Further uses of gestural computing.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi-360\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The promise of the IoT - using RFID or Eddystone URLs to create a \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91pantheon\u8217\'92 of }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://F6A3D875-7A92-4309-B13D-10177DE2B9E9"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91evocative\u8217\'92 objects}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  that react, interact and enrich one\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s experience with the creature, moving in intensity through Watts\u8217\'92 image of objects as }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93props for vernacular storytelling.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Biometrics/}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://EE4BAEE7-25A3-4A49-896B-B6209AFAA0B5"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0 heartbeat sensors}}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://6F05F45C-B67F-4E35-A566-CBA81CFA42B8"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Movement sensors}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 .}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Water as an input device (hydrophones).}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 A \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91smart cloak\u8217\'92 - }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://DBBD50CA-03C8-432B-A474-F2247EB9B00D"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0 wearing its pelt}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , or a hood, that squeezes you back.. This is an atavistically-comforting piece of clothing, and I want to capture that feeling.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 A living, breathing installation of the creature in a room. The entire creature, with the screen at the centre.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Haptic feedback.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Wear the creature as a mask, in a head harness. This changes the creature dramatically into \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91mask mode\u8217\'92.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Using compressed air for its breath.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Character as environment, character-as-interface. Moving towards direct manipulation.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 How the context could be improved to get people coming back.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\ri-998\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Direct Manipulation Interface }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Term introduced by Ben Shneiderman.}{\f1\fs24\b1\i0  }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 This is opposed to a textual or command-line interface; an object-based interface with metaphor, affordance and naive physics in which things move and act much like they would in real life. Also characterised by incremental change, rather than the more monolithic changes that come from issuing distinct commands to a computer. It does not necessarily have to be graphical; can incorporate sound or haptics.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Physicality is a big factor (harris and sharlin) - I do not yet have this\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85The Stem has a \u8220\'93substantial physical presence\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Speech recognition is a bit crap - machine learning is out of our hands.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Lots of problems seem to be where the technology is too much for the artists, and the artistry is too much for the engineers.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 he effects of experience-taking can}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 be harnessed and directed toward such positive ends as increasing}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 civic engagement and reducing prejudice and stereotyping. - application in heritage? In the self-expansion section.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f3\fs24\b0\i0 Returning to the \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8216\'91cabinet\u8217\'92 idea.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Noted (like others re. children) - that young children focussed on outer characteristics of characters, older children internal.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Using character-led teaching techniques to allow children to understand plot and narrative BETTER and with greater understanding (by following them through the text). Character as SUPPORTING narrative, as providing understanding, resonance as a tool not just to emotion, buyt to actual understanding.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 R.G. Collingweood - rethink the thoughts of past people in order to understand their history. \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93The history of though\u8230\'85 is the renactment of past thought in the historian\u8217\'92s own mind\u8221\'94. But, as critics such as Patrick Gardiner have stated, we cannot fully simulate another\u8217\'92 state of mind. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 best characters "cause us to occupy their world" and "read more deeply" - can guide us through their stories (this is one of their qualities, as guides to themes.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 "characters can make us better comprehenders"}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Kratka (2009) - Tv/film reader-response. from the "character the view gains experience in many different field" }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Learning as a result of identification, and self-reflection. "forms a curcial part of social and emotional learning"}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 "active choice" and "process" of choosing fictional characters to identify with (remember, identification is only one part of response)}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Not just the character's effect on the reader, but part of a process of self-reflection - the character is taken within them.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 risnotonlyapassively}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 suggestible recipient of fiction and its influence, but that the viewer actively assesses the}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 fictionalarrangement,whichismostdistinctiveduringtheidentificationprocess.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0  fiction is regarded}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 asasimulatedexperience}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Choose characters that match themselves.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Use characters as possible }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 'play' with characters and situations so that they create and open new modalities for themselves - play is used a lot, relate in chapter 2?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 All of this stuff will relate to chapter 4 as well.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Differencesbetweenthecharacterandrecipientoffictioncanprovidenewunderstanding.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 'chaotic' learning environment.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Environment is always connected to other environment - not isolated, not unaffected by events outside itself.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 an irre-}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 placeable, fundamental form of lifelong learning}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 n general it is possible to say that sharing}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 165}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The loss of attention in multimedia (Laure Ryan paragraph 29) - for essay 4.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 a pplications oF t ransportation t hEory}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Narratives.can.be.a.persuasive.force.in.a.variety.of.domains..Transportation.theory.has.been.applied.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 to.marketing,.health,.and.political.settings..For.example,.consumer.psychology.research.shows.that.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 individuals.who.mentally.simulate.experience.with.products.(imagining.themselves.wearing.a.pair.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 of.running.shoes).are.transported.and.thus.show.reduced.critical.thinking.and.a.more.positive.atti-}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 tude.toward.the.advertisement.and.the.product.(Escalas,.2004).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Transportation.is.also.relevant.to.health.communications.and.may.underlie.some.of.the.effects.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 observed.in.entertainment-education,.a.technique.that.embeds.health.messages.in.stories.(radio.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 programs,.telenovelas;.see.Singhal,.Cody,.Rogers,.&.Sabido,.2003,.and.Slater,.2002,.for.reviews)..}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Researchers.and.public.health.officials.have.used.narratives.about.topics.ranging.from.safe.sex.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 to.adult.education.in.the.hope.of.changing.attitudes.and.behaviors.(Singhal.&.Rogers,.1999)..For.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 instance,.after.the.broadcast.of.Acompaname (Come Along With Me),.a.Mexican.telenovela.(soap.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 opera).focused.on.family-planning.issues,.visits.to.family-planning.clinics.increased.by.32%.(Insti-}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 tute.for.Communication.Research,.1981,.cited.in.Slater,.2002)..Entertainment-education.has.been.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 used.most.often.in.developing.nations,.but.there.is.growing.interest.in.the.use.of.narratives.for.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 changing.health.beliefs.in.the.United.States..For.example,.narratives.can.be.used.to.encourage.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 health.screenings.and.healthy.behaviors.(e.g.,.Green,.2006;.Kreuter.et.al.,.2007).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Television.narratives.about.controversial.contemporary.issues.such.as.the.death.penalty.have.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 been.shown.to.reduce.resistance.to.attitude.change.that.stems.from.prior.liberal/conservative.ideol-}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ogy.(Slater,.Rouner,.&.Long,.2006)..On.a.broader.level,.over.time,.transportation.may.contribute.to.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 cultivation.effects,.in.which.individuals\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92.beliefs.come.to.reflect.the.somewhat.skewed.vision.of.the.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 world.as.reflected.in.television.portrayals.rather.than.the.real.world.(e.g.,.higher.crime.rates;.Shrum,.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Burroughs,.&.Rindfleisch,.2005)..Transported.individuals.may.be.especially.likely.to.integrate.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 televised.portrayals.into.their.real.lives}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Handbook of Imagination transportation theory is good for this chapter.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx288\tx864\li864\fi-848\ri0\ltrch\loch {\f4\fs24\b0\i0\cf2 s important as a film characte}
\par\pard\plain \fi864\ri0\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The act of reading has lessons for other areas of study - and vice versa!}
\par\pard\plain \sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch {\f4\fs24\b0\i0\cf2 r.}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sa288\sb288\ltrch\loch {\f4\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 "no role for fictional literature in psychology is envisaged." - oatley - but it should be! Starting to be.}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Quotes Dan Johnson\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s study on overcoming racial prejudice through reading.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Another.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 research.direction.might.address.how.narratives.can.help.overcome.common.biases}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93The compuiter itself\u8230\'85 is an enchanted object.\u8221\'94(p99)}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Maybe look at Robot and Computer stuff - now the form, and its context, is as important as the virtual world within.}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 SO I am an artist looking at this work in computer and science and saying\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85 what can I do with it?}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Why installation work? How will I get it out to others?}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Bring it back to taking character - artful character - back into the world.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 When the creature dies.}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 If intelligence is to be achieved by design, it will necessarily be a learning}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 experience for the designer. The programming of intelligent agents requires not only}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 principled structure and approach, but also methodological support.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Book becomes useful after he has died -> once the simulation no longer works. You cannot necessarily go back.}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 "sympathetic environment" - not in thesis. Or in future plans?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 my creature is less powerful than the written word.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 installation art}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 immersive theatre}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 museum studies.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Cannot  effect the world.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Shoemaker et. Al \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93 parasocial relationships may provide}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 fertile ground for self-expansion, especially for those who are temporarily or chronically}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 isolated, those who have limited social relationships, or those with homogenous social}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 groups.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93ictional characters have the power to be role models. \u8220\'93}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 There is a notion in the Arts of ?b elievable character?? It do es not mean an honest}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 or reliable character? but one that provides the illusion of life? and thus p ermits the}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 audience?s susp ension of disb elief?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 These are creatures with}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 whom you?d want to share some of your life?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 building apparently autonomous entities that}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 p eople? esp ecially the creators? would genuinely care ab out?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 It can b e argued that while scientists may have more e?ectively recreated scien?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 tists? it is the artists who have come closest to understanding and p erhaps capturing}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 This idea of coding as curation - not creative or original as such, but gathering grammars together? I don\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t buy it. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 How will I measure success? Bind concets with concrete user testing.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Other artworks that require pre-reading (installation-wise)?coll}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 "What is the creature's utility?" - a question to consider. to think about character in a different way, enironment in a different way, using the audience's imagination, activating it in a way that is more sympathetic to the restrictions of the medium.}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Going on to IoT?}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Haunted house tradition in America }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Locked room games.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 We?ve tried to argue that}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 these artists hold some of the same central goals as AI researchers?}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 How does my approach compare?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 How has it succeeded?}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Why installation in thesis, but only a bit. Practical. Can put all the reading in the bibliography.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Use In Art}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Sarah Angliss and her ventriloquist\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s dummies - \u8220\'93knows they have quite an impact on stage\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Now imbuing everyday objects with embodiements of their previous owners and fragments of conversation - everyday animism.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Non-figurative form of robotic art\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 She loves the uncanny - making everyday things and places strange. Moving into the real world.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Humanlike yet inhuman\u8221\'94 - relating to anthropomorpism. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Uniqueness is important. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 She doesn\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t hide the functionality of her robots - maybe I shouldn\u8217\'92t either? Organic representation of internals.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Poetic robotics\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93The minimum humanlike movement I need to create an impression of human animacy\u8221\'94.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Children attached to tobots more than parents - simulating everything, creating our own paradises.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 He thinks we should not simulate emotions, in this (contradicts himself in later paper) }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Better just make them suitable as a kind of tool.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 We o?er the thought that researchers could make this same methodological}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 move with other requirements? such as emotion or p ersonality? that artists tell us are}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 needed to present the convincing? p ersistent? illusion of life?}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \li720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 What John Tinnell calls the }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93ubiquitous computing paradigm\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  - no spaces away from networked, trilling noise.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Which is, of course, the promise of AI - the Internet of Things, networked databases, constant wireless access. This makes reflection, solitude and the }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://5F26A0F3-2B51-412F-9D5E-F34D51A6D49E"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1 magic circle}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1  }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 very difficult to conjure. Perhaps this is why making good art digitally is difficult? Attention spans are low.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 magic circle }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 is not only difficult to conjure, but where would its boundaries be defined? With a book, or a film, this is easy, and is aided by the }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 physical design }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 of the art\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s material space to match its conceptual space. With }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8216\'91ubicomp\u8217\'92}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (Tinnell\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s phrase, perhaps borrowed from elsewhere) we don\u8217\'92t have those spaces \u8220\'93bracketed off [from] the distractions of open air spontaneity\u8221\'94.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  Madrigal, quoted in Tinnell; }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93No one knows how to create words and pictures that are meant to be consumed out there in the world\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . }
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Anti-commercial approach to the text.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Return to baudrillard and the power of autocosmics.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 imulacra and simulation}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Not sure of Baudrillard's m,oral position on 'good' and 'bad' copies of reality being 'accurate' and 'inaccurate'}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The creature is a sign pretending to be a faithful copy - like characters?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Arbitrary images are merely suggested as things which they have no relationship to.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 "the order of sorcery" - the assumption of a great teleology.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Think about "user journey" - one person at a time, 10 mins each? How do they go into it?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 What are the "good choices" for the user?}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 autocosmics already used a huge amount in heritage, study of history - focussing on idvidual stories, using characters as ciphers for exhibitions etc.}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Digital god you make a pilgrimage to. Interesting and fascinating. Starts as soon as they hear about it. (this ties to player sympathy.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi-360\ri-998\ltrch\loch {\f5\fs24\b0\i0 Being in an installation means the interaction time is much smaller.}
\par\plain \f5\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi-720\ri-998\ql\ltrch\loch {\f5\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 P.14 - talks about Flow\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s (Chen) ideal being hampered by people having to use a six-axis and view on a screen - the context is important. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Smell}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Wharton as a characteristic digital environment in heritage.}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f3\fs24\b0\i0 Rather than mimicking the inside, Bryson says (in embodiment and mimetics) that we should embody an agent, use its environment to provide personality. }
\par\plain \f3\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f3\fs24\b0\i0 Exhibition in a hut on hill in derbyshire?}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Obviously there is a \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91physical\u8217\'92 closeness and intimacy with the creature, in that you are directly manipulating its features and experiencing it in real time, as you would a \u8216\'91living\u8217\'92 agent. Empathy is a key part of my research, in no small part generated by the creature\u8217\'92s dependence upon you as an ill person; a different sort of intimacy is explored here, that of physical and personal intimacy as evinced in the field of palliative care, exacerbated by the vivisectionist, biological control which the player will continue to have over the creature. However, the acolyte }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 relies on the creature for the experience to exist at all,}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  and relies upon its power as a god, activated by the rituals in the \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91holy manual\u8217\'92, to have any sort of experience with it at all. If there is a consensus to partake at all, then a dependency is formed. If that dependency is broken, the acolyte has already walked away from the experience, and the bond is broken anyway.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 This is an interdependence, which I would like to explore in the relationship going forward; actions taken together, actions remembered physically or mentally, a growing understanding of the creature both as system and individual, will increase the bond between player and creature. This is something which needs to be maintained in the long-term, over the entire timescale of the experience.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Interdependence, in the main, should be a pleasurable experience; though of course Watts is not interested in changing this dynamic to create dramatic effect. I am! Therefore, the interdependency will change as the experience goes on; it will become more desperate, more morally grey, and more uncanny. This is part of my artistic remit; the limits of character empathy, of paracosmic interaction.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93What is the reader;s attitude to (a work of) fiction }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1 before reading it\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8230\'85 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 and }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1 while }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 reading it?\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 close the door, turn down the lights, turn up the volume, and experience Uru}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 We need to remove things from everyday life, to exalt them, to understand them}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Murray - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93\u8220\'93Live theater has been incorpiorating the same qualities of spontaneity and audience involvement for some time.\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 You must \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93script the interactor as well as the program\u8221\'94.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \li720\ltrch\loch \ls3\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}\f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0 Courting The Acolyte\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s Sympathies}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0
\par\pard\plain \fi720\sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 This is a }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 cultural }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 issue, partially outside the remit of the }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "scrivlnk://6365EAAF-4236-4C93-AAE4-F9116EC51892"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0 character\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s digital environment and self}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . I must be concerned with how the wider culture impacts on people coming to my creature, and what I can do to mitigate their expectations of what is a limited medium, engage them in a consensual experience (}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "scrivlnk://F3EE388E-4444-448D-94E4-7B916EC7344B"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0 in which we all {\f2\fs24\b0\i1 agree }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 to suspend disbelief and engage in a magic circle}}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ) and provoke their paracosmic sympathies as audience. This will be especially important for my }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "scrivlnk://E2A07919-CDFC-474C-8966-33338D45A838"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Recipes Model,}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  in which we directly ask players to bring items into the game experience themselves. This section is designed to mitigate }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 inherent knowledge}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , or at least assumed knowledge, about how the creature works mechanically. In reference to theatre (and applying the same observation to computing) Brenda Laurel says that }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93audience members are simply not aware of the technical aspects at all\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 . }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 However, I am not sure how true this is. It is certainly not true of every audience; some may have more inherent knowledge than others, and while their paracosmic tendencies might override many of these, complete ignorance or lack of opinion on how a computer }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 does }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 work should not be assumed. This is different, it is important to note, from how a computer }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 should }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 work, which is something we want to court.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 One\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s interactions with something are not only concrete and first-person; they come in how one approaches it as a cultural concept, how one talks about it, the grammar employed;}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://DC401474-9C6C-4118-A573-64BDFDD46C06"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0  we create a {\f2\fs24\b0\i1 context }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 in which we approach the work}}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , especially when it comes to AI. The AI Effect (the idea that when something has become a mainstream technology we know longer consider it intelligent, as we previously did) is well-known. What is more, people are actively hostile towards AI, the presumption of AI, and wish eagerly to disprove it. }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 I must not make these presumptions, or at least not make them apparent.}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f3\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f3\fs24\b0\i0 "All play moves and has its being within a playground marked off befordhand either materially or ideally" p.1}
\par\plain \f3\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f3\fs24\b0\i0 Who is it meant for? One person over and over or lots individually? Could be both; different experiences (ascribe changes/discrepancies to either characters or other players)}
\par\plain {\f3\fs24\b0\i0 Where do they first hear about it?}
\par\pard\plain \sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Digital media as performative}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 You are a performer with the creature}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Performance = \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93bodily co-presence\u8221\'94 - realting to your autocosmic performance with creature to create a whole.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Ian Reader - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93formalised and organised means of interactions\u8221\'94}{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93Wizard of oz\u8221\'94 technique - behind the curtain. }
\par\pard\plain \li720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The creature\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s innards are behind a curtain - this is the drama.}
\par\pard\plain \sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 As in Japan - a torii delineates a sacred space (ian reader), \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93leaving one\u8217\'92s everyday routines\u8221\'94, ritual actions. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93The fundamental condition of performance is the encounter between performer and spectator within a set of design parameters.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 PED is about the experienc whilst using technology, not the end result - I am interested in both. Away from \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93focus on products\u8230\'85 [instead] unarchibable, intangible interactions.}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Dionysian expeirence - being, through art, in the presenve of a god (Laurel) - art and games proved a sacred space entered}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93In here, the meaning of the ordinary is transformed.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 For virtual reality to fulfill its highest potential, we must reinvent the sacred spaces where we collaborate with reality in order to transform it and ourselves.\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Samyn - for an \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93audience of one\u8221\'94 - R-TAM.}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b1\i0
\par\pard\plain \sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Brenda Laurel and her book }{\f6\fs24\b1\i1 Computers as Theatre }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 is my touchstone for this}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ; in this book, she advocates for seeing the user/computer relationship as like a performer/audience relationship, as a \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93representation on stage\u8221\'94, in many different ways, and that through the application of techniques of performance (in her case, theatrical performance) better applications and systems will be developed.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Heightened attention to the present moment.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 About the dynamics rather than the statics.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Talks about \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93enactment\u8221\'94 - one user performing directly with technology in public (Sarah Ayers) as opposed to \u8220\'93staging\u8221\'94. \u8220\'93Self-performance\u8221\'94 as well as performance to others.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 In simulation, signs merely reflect other signs - no reality. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1st-order simulation - premodern - clearly an artificial placemarker for the real. (characters in books, the creature - not going towards the hyperreal)}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 2nd-order - mass-produced items no longer individual, but commodiities - imitating realities, no one true object.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 3rd-roder - the simulacrum has replaced the original, and the distinction between reality and representation vanishes. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The map precedes the territoruy - the precession of simulacra.}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 r - not a template or blueprint for making characters, though I hope it is useful in this regard. Only really about making this one character - not a system for including characters like versu or x or x.}
\par\pard\plain \sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Creative Computing - Hongji and Andrew differentiate it from computational creativity, which is an engineering thing. \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Doing computations in a creative way\u8221\'94 - this isn\u8217\'92t the focus of my work.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 CC \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93seeks to reconcile the objective precision of computer systems (mathesis) with the subjective ambiguity of human creativity (aethesis). }
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Games have an element of design, usability - we do not have to think how to use a book. Maybe this will be the way with computers in the future.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 BUT - I\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92m interested in heartbeat monitors and stuff - am I really? }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 We are exiting the sacred phase of society - collective animism (IoT) combined with tech utopianism. We don\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t understand our devices. We now look for reenchantment that correlates with science.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 According to Koster, part of the problem is }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93fail[ing] to model human society well enough to encourage good behaviour\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ; this must be my goal. Not to model human society, but rather to model life, and the themes of devotion, service, care and empathy to that life in order to encourage introspection on behaviour.}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Look at HCI for ubicomp and conclusion}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 A lot of the application seems to go towards advertising, marketing. Not good.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Virtual agents are becoming more and more popular in all}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 types of application areas, such as education, health, military}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 and gaming, among others. (Rodrigues et al)}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0}