{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 ArialMT;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial-BoldMT;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial-BoldItalicMT;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red251\green4\blue7;\red127\green4\blue127;}
{\*\listtable
{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f1\fs24\b1\i0\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fs24\b0\i1\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f0\fs24\b0\i0\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f0\fs24\b0\i0\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid6\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f0\fs24\b0\i0\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid6}
{\list\listtemplateid7\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f0\fs24\b0\i0\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid7}
{\list\listtemplateid8\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f0\fs24\b0\i0\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid8}
{\list\listtemplateid9\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fs24\b0\i1\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid9}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}{\listoverride\listid7\listoverridecount0\ls7}{\listoverride\listid8\listoverridecount0\ls8}{\listoverride\listid9\listoverridecount0\ls9}}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0 Defining This \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8216\'91Low Fantasy\u8217\'92}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs24\b1\i0	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 What does literary fantasising, this particular mental faculty, lie in opposition to, in Wolf\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s eyes?}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs24\b1\i0	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 It is everything that relates to the human ability to create \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8216\'91illusion\u8217\'92 (I.e. to create mental simulations) }{\f2\fs24\b1\i1 outside of the purely artistic.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 A very, very large topic, covering one of the most important, distinguishing and widespread human faculties, of which aesthetic illusion is just one subset, distinguished by the need for a }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93inciting representation\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ; in distinction to this is what Wolf somewhat dismisses as }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93delusions\u8221\'94, \u8220\'93conceptual and perceptual errors\u8221\'94, \u8220\'93hallucinations\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 and }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93dreams\u8221\'94. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 While art is very interested in these things as subjects }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 (examples from art?),}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1  the role of such things in art are often set aside. Such things are more the purview of}{\f3\fs24\b0\i1\cf1  }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 psychological, psychoanalytical and neuroscientific literature.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 However, there is, I hope to show here, much crossover; much of what we could consider \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93non-literary\u8221\'94 mental simulation can have inciting representations, often deliberate (advertising, for example), but often accidental and unformalised. Often, we might argue, what distinguishes it is the  }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 direct }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93phenomenology of our experiences\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (Walton), rather than being parsed through a text. Not always, however. Can be within its own magic circle, can be participatory with which Huizinga called }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93the play attitude\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , but often is forced upon us, or seems real: not defined by the }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93ambivalence\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  or deliberate participation which is, according to Wolf, part of the aesthetic illusion. Can often be part of the warp and weft of our lives, more deeply embedded, or afforded less sacred significance and space, than art itself.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f3\fs24\b0\i1
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f3\fs24\b0\i1	\loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93Make-believe and imagining are pervasive in human experience, by no means confined to our interactions with works of fiction\u8230\'85 fiction [is] continuous with the rest of life.\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 (Walton, S&S). }
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f3\fs24\b0\i1\cf1
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f3\fs24\b0\i1\cf1	\loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f3\fs24\b0\i1\cf1 "The mental cinema is always at work in each one of us... [it never] stop[s] projecting images before our mind's eye." }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 (Calvino)}{\f3\fs24\b0\i1\cf1  }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf2 The mind\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s }
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0 A Nominal Definition}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch \ls3\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 As with aesthetic illusion, there are many terms used to describe this faculty. It is not in the remit to discuss them all, merely draw them together in review. Very commonly it is called }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93imagination\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 (a citation?)}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93simulation\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 (a citation?)}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  or }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93modelling\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 (a citation?)}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , or many other things besides. Each of these have both specific and general meanings within different fields, which can muddy our high-level examination of the entirety of the phenomenon. For example, imagination is used in psychology to mean \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93all mental simulation\u8221\'94, as we mean it, as well as precisely to mean the simulation of prior sensory experiences.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Because of this, and to distinguish our transdisciplinary interest, I will be using a nominal definition, a term around which we can talk, and which we can use to stand for our general interest, whether aesthetic or mundane, incited or sourceless, deliberate or accidental, in the human hallucinatory faculty as an object of interest for artists.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The term I have chosen is }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 AUTOCOSMICS}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . This means \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93self-worlds\u8221\'94, which I think captures the internalised, personal nature of mental simulation, as well as their immersiveness, as well as pointing to their atmospheric osmosis; how other mental faculties, and the world outside the self, can affect and influence them, like meteorites scarring the face of a world. The word \u8216\'91cosmos\u8217\'92, as well, to me stands for a system in tension, an interpolation of many moving parts, rather than the rather static }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93imagination\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , which also confines us to the purely visual: though this is important, it is not the only way to \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91imagine\u8217\'92. We could have used the word \u8216\'91simulation\u8217\'92, which I think also preserves these qualities, but again its numerous popular and specific meanings make life difficult for us. Autocosmics, in being new and nominal, does not place any prior judgement or distinction between \u8220\'93high\u8221\'94 and \u8220\'93low\u8221\'94 fantasy, its source or purpose, only the fact of its existence as a phenomenon, its role within the individual, its varying degrees of immersion and its constant systemic evolution within a mind. I must admit to adapting it from another pleasing term, }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 paracosm}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , used (but not coined) extensively by the developmental psychologist Marjorie Taylor }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 to describe the detailed fictional worlds of both children, lunatics and artists. This cross-generational divide is a nice touch, as is the non-judgemental ascription to all human mental activity, which I feel is preserved in my term. }
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 This account, then, in referring to \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93autocosmics\u8221\'94 in general, might be accused of being an act of }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93intellectual hubris\u8221\'94  }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 (an attempt to theorise everything, and thus nothing); but I am not trying to unite all mental simulation, or provide a grand theory, or link everything together; I merely want to draw attention to its ubiquity, and the different ways that it has been both courted, ignored and modified by different fields, with the concluding goal of looking outside my own disciplinary boundaries at other examples of this loose collection of human abilities.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0 Where Does It Come From?}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 [[This section might need more theoretical grounding]].}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf3
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls4\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 In plain English, from a combination of the mind and the body.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The power of the human brain as a computational object, to compute both internally to itself (memory, for example (}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 cite}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 )), and externally to the bodily. It is arguable whether mental simulation can be thought of as }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 ever }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 entirely mental: phenomenologists such as Andy Clark states that much of our cognition is out in the world (}{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8221\'94extended cognition\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ). Merleau-Ponty talked about \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93the flesh of the world\u8221\'94, and Shapiro traces changes in more recent history from a }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1\cf3 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93}{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 comfortably Cartesian view[s] of mind." }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 To }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93the mind incarnate\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (Shapiro).}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls4\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 David Deutsch - }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93it is uncontroversial that the human brain has capabilities that are, in some respects, far superior to those of all other known objects in the cosmos.\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls4\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The processing of that information takes place within our brains: this is an evolutionary impulse. }{\f2\fs24\b1\i1  }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Holland - }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93}{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 General abilities based in the brain and shared by all human beings who have normal brains.\loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls4\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 It relies in general on two major components of mankind\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s biology and psychology: the gathering of information and its processing, either in conjunction or merely processing. }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93Man\u8230\'85 is\u8230\'85 a receiver and transmitter of information\u8230\'85 transforms the distillate of his world into memories, mental imagery\u8230\'85 an information processor.\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 (Weiz p140).  }
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f3\fs24\b0\i1	\loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93The ability to interpret is not acquired; it is constitutive of being human.\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0    Stanley Fish}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch \ls5\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 What, at base, we try to do is make sense of this flood of sensory and mental data, constantly churning and changing all the time, which \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93}{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 stimulate people to look for causal connections}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 .\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94  As Donald Norman says, \u8220\'93t}{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 he human mind is exquisitely tailored to make sense of the world\loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8221\'94; we are \u8220\'93explanatory creatures\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 (cite?)}{\f3\fs24\b0\i1  }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 who }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93assimilate reality into systems of transformations\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ; mental systems that mean manipulating the raw data into internalised sense-made projections. This comes back the idea of accidental/deliberate; though we can deliberately tweak and make sense of certain things in certain ways, often it is accidental and uncontrolled: \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93}{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 give it the slightest clues and off it goes, providing explanation, rationalisation, understanding\loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8221\'94 . }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Very similar to the }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93integrative coherence\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 of aesthetic illusion from Wolf, in which the reader parses the text with their own lives. This is }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93reproductive imagination\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 cite}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ); reproducing (always partially) the data we receive from the world. This is contrasted with \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93constructive imagination\u8221\'94, or is in partnership with it; using the computational power of the brain to take existing concepts and build new ones out of them, or adapt mental constructs of sensory/bodily/worldly data and change them into something else. }
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch \ls5\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Indeed, this sense-making leads us to a wider use of the term \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91narrative\u8217\'92; a }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93mode of mental life\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (Oatley)  as a sequence of consistent events which are relatable and trackable, temporal and causal. It is how we explain the past, predict the future, and plot the present in continuum, give meaning to our existence and determine patterns over a long period of time. It has led, arguably, to the modern practices of science; placing what we know into an experimental mental mode, applying that to the outside world, and comparing the two. Science requires creative leaps combined with this inquisitiveness and pattern-matching ability, which has led to most of our most breathtaking advances as a species }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 (who talks about this?)}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 , and have shaped our complex social natures, as well as coordinating the simplest of our higher (and lower) functions. }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1\cf1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93Narrative [is] the most important cognitive macro-frame man has developed to make sense of experience in and of time\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 (Wolf).}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain \f3\fs24\b0\i1
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch {\f3\fs24\b0\i1  }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf4 [[Is there a specific example of this which demonstrates all these concepts? Of both taking data from the world, and adapting existing mental constructs, both deliberately and accidentally, into an explanatory narrative which also relates to our interest in characters?]]}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf4
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf4 EMPATHY!}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch \ls6\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 A big subject of debate amongst reader-response theorists and psychologists.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch \ls5\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Taking the view of another. Chris Allen Thomas - }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93empathy is the ability of people to recognise and respond to the emotions of others\u8221\'94. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 M.H. Davis - empathy is the }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1\cf1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93reactions of one individual to the observed experiences of another.\u8221\'94 - \u8220\'93}{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 simulates what is going on in another person\loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8217\'92s mind\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 (Feagin).}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch \ls5\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 Different from sympathy, which is the emotional response to the emotional experiences of another }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1\cf1 as other}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 , as opposed to empathy, which involves a degree of perspective-taking; of understanding not just the situation externally, but the mental situation internally. Relates to German term }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1\cf1 Einfuhlung }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 (\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94feeling into\u8221\'94). Dunn (1988) states that maybe it is difficult to separate these two states.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch \ls5\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 (Margaret Morris) Either cognitive Empathy - deliberate \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93perspective taking\u8221\'94, or emotional empathy, which is mostly-unconscious sharing of emotions due to emotional contagion. }
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch \ls5\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 Relies entirely on the ability to simulate the minds of the other, a }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1\cf1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93theory of mind\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 or what Alison Lee calls }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1\cf1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93mentalising\u8221\'94.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1  and can produce very strong emotional responses (similar to emotion in fiction, though actually based on reality?). Part of what Davies & Stone call }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1\cf1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93}{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 folk psychological\~practice\loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8221\'94, \u8220\'93a practice in which we all engage on an everyday basis.\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch \ls5\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Required because of the hard problem of consciousness, the inaccessibility of other minds}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf3  (citation?)}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  - tied to qualia (introduced by CI Lewis in 1929) - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93}{\f3\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb2\highlight2 the subjective or qualitative properties of experiences.\loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 (Kind), including \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93}{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 perceptual experiences, bodily sensations, felt reactions and emotions and felt moods\loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2  . These are very difficult to study, and their existence has caused }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb2\highlight2 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93considerable controversy in philosophy of mind\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2  (Kind).}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch \ls5\ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs24\b1\i0	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 BIOLOGICAL BASIS }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Kohler (infants gain self-objectification and empathy at 2); Farrow et. Al (2001) and Oschner et. Al (2004) found the precuneus and prefrontal cortex and left superior frontal gyrus as important for empathy.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Vogeley & Fink (2003) - Precuneus (in the brain) is associated with the taking of perspectives, both first-person and spatial third-person, with differental activation in the bilateral precuneus when first-person (because of agency?), though Alison Lee is not sure whether this is the source of mental imagery, or the mechanism by which we understand the perspectives of others.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch \ls5\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 Very, very important to human society. }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb2\highlight2 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93The importance of empathy is indisputable because it plays a vital role in human social behavior as well as in the behavior of some non-human species\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 (Rodrigues et al.) }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Frans de Vaal - a}{\f3\fs24\b0\i1  \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93mammalian characteristic\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  -> communicate at an emotional level with our pets. Emotional empathy in voles. Goes against the idea that everything is based on selfish motives in the animal kingdom (in his book Empathy: Its Ultimate & Proximal Bases), and opens up intriguing debates on theory of mind in animals. Some see it, however as HIS autocosmics.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Humphrey and Crook - social animals need cues. }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 -\loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8221\'94probably has an innate basis\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  - }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93we are designed by natural selection to assume that other people have similar mental experiences to ourselves\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . So, social interdependence leads to the need for simulation.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0 Extensions Of Audience Response Theory Into Psychology (Overlap of \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93High\u8221\'94 Fantasy & \u8220\'93Low\u8221\'94 Fantasy)}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls7\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Childs & Fowler -}{\f3\fs24\b0\i1  \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93Since I. A. Richards\u8217\'92s Principles of Literary Criticism (1924), critics have usually been wary of detailed explorations into reader psychology: \u8216\'91willing suspension of disbelief\u8217\'92 (Coleridge) is now more often alluded to than investigated.\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  - this is not true at all! Massive link between reader-response theory and psychology.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls7\ilvl0{\listtext\f3\fs24\b0\i1	\loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93What is more, improvements in psychology and neuroscience have lent even more credence to the reader-response position, as we are now able to offer scientific proof \endash  the 'facts' that the Formalists were so keen on \endash  as to what is happening in an audience's mind when they engage with a literary work.\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 (Literature & The Brain, 2009)}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls7\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Gerrig's work - }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 "that fiction... has the same status that illusions have for psychologists interested in perception\loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 .}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls7\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Not all reader-response theorists are like Childs & Fowler and Wolf - Holland Interested in the difference between individual responses, and how wider human responses to things coincided with literary responses. He talks about dreams, and slips of the tongue.}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0          \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 We see here that there is a lot of (and increasing) overlap between the study of psychology and the study of literature: important discoveries are made linking general principles of mental simulation and specific aesthetic illusion. An interesting conclusion from it: Reader is not all-powerful, as some reader-response theory categorises them - subject to powerful outside forces and internal forces (autocosmics), and they bring many of their wider autocosmic faculties into their appreciation of art. The degree to which this happens, and the extent of similarity between \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93real-world\u8221\'94 autocosmics and \u8220\'93art-world\u8221\'94 autocosmics is still a subject of debate. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls8\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 NeuroImage 2006 study and Emory University 2012: the brain lights up areas that deal with texture and smell when dealing with descriptions, metaphors and similes that employ these techniques. Words like \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93lavender,\u8221\'94 \u8220\'93cinnamon\u8221\'94 and \u8220\'93soap,\u8221\'94 for example, elicit a response not only from the language-processing areas of our brains, but also those devoted to dealing with smells.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls8\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Motor cortex stimulated when reading about physical activity (Boulenger study)}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls8\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Mar (2011) - fMRI studies - overlap between reading about stories and parts of brain used for interpersonal interaction.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls8\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Nicolopoulos & Richner - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Results indicated that children's representation of characters shifted from almost exclusively physical and external portrayals of "actors" at 3 to increasing inclusion of "agents" with rudimentary mental states at 4 and of "persons" with mental representational capacities by 5.\u8221\'94  Their method involved splitting \u8216\'91character\u8217\'92 from \u8216\'91plot\u8217\'92 development. \u8220\'93Misleading\u8221\'94 previous research putting this ability much later in children.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls8\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Simo Saatela\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s look at the Startle Effect in film (her disputation of the Paradox of Fiction) and its \u8220\'93mistaken identification\u8221\'94 with real fear and danger.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls8\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Cohen\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s comparisons of \u8220\'93identification with media characters\u8221\'94 with identification in \u8220\'93other interpersonal contexts\u8230\'85 such as stories heard around a campfire or at a slumber party, or in highly emotional interpersonal conversations, such as in support groups.\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls8\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Emory University - A compelling novel causes changes in the brain - heightened activity in regions of the brain associated with physical sensation and movement when reading something with a dramatic plot.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls8\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Directs In Empirical Literary Studies (2008) - reading prose by Chekhov is different from reading documentary-style text with the same context. \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93By projecting ourselves into fictional stories and the minds of fictional characters, we open ourselves up to greater possibilities for who we may become.\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls8\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Kid & Castano - reading literature improves intuitive abilities.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls8\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Peter Bazalgette - the arts promote empathy.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls8\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Oatley & Mar (2006 and 2007) - reading fiction makes you more empathetic.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Calvino writes about qualia, and posits that it may be the basis for all writing - }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 " [to] give speech to that which has no language"}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 Norman Holland looked at psychoanalytic psychology.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 Working with Reading Groups: (Holland, Richard Long, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93playful\u8221\'94 discussions - }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 "they actively constructed meanings together, based on such issues as character, identifications, and the moral qualities of the books as they related to the member's own lives." }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Keith Oatley\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s work with reading groups,  a }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 "profound... meeting of minds"}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . Bleich's symbolisation and resymbolisation tests - no objective reading, based on their own experiences. Steig and Slatoff's experimentations. Berman looks at emotively-charged discussion - kind of like therapy.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Cohen links empathy creation with identification with media characters - part of the emotional learning of children.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Discover the phonology (the sounds of names) allow you to discriminate the roles of characters.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Name of character predicts their role - like bouba/kiki.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 Miall and Kuiken use techniques from neuropsychology.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 Heart Rate test - hear rate change when listing to a story. language regions and auditory regions are triggered. No distinction in body between real and unreal.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 In fact, lots of cross-over. Very related to psychology, and has been linked to psychological advances, particularly post-behaviourists}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0 Quick Conclusion}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls9\ilvl0{\listtext\f3\fs24\b0\i1	\loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93Psychological processes do not happen in books but in people\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - a character\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s resonance, for an audience member, is inextricably tied to their wider autocosmic faculties.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls9\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Autocosmics, then, is not what lies }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 outside }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 literature: it is the sum of the human faculty of mental simulation and virtuality, of which Wolf\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93aesthetic illusion}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 is a part. Indeed, it is scalar, part of a continuum, and the distinctions between mundane narrative cognition and aesthetic narrative cognition are less clear than perhaps Wolf makes out, or perhaps, if not less clear, then less relevant. The distinction between aesthetic and mundane, real and fictional, true emotion and quasi-emotion, is difficult to countenance, and battles rage on. What seems to be true in the recent psychology/literary theory/neuroscience corssovers is that }
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls9\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 art is  }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 "emotionally potent... a kind of emotional truth that we experience at a biochemical level"}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 .  }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93On a neurobiological level, our experience of consuming fiction is actually very real.\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch \ls9\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Narrative is not a faculty unique, or even necessarily originating in, art: it is something which we have always used to interpret the world around us, and our own minds and its constructs. Character, as a concept, is something which transcends literature as well: it is part of our experience of narrative, it is how we make sense of and compartmentalise the acts and supposed thoughts of other agents.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 We therefore, as artists trying to create good characters, create \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91resonance\u8217\'92 through the courting of the entire autocosmic faculty of human beings; of understanding the links between a character portrayed on screen and the piece of hay blowing across a car park which looks like a spider; the similarities between relating to other real people and written people; the wider context of these supposedly delimited imaginations which are our object of study and artifice. This holds much interest to us; this context of pattern-matching, narratisation, sense-making etc, across human culture, not just art. Perhaps then art will not only speak of human culture and human cognition; it will court it more widely, in a formal sense, in their audiences as well. }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 There are many, many fields of research which I have taken inspiration from in this sense, and where I can show elements of narrative or artistic interest where perhaps there is not a great deal of interest already }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 [the big list]}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . Perhaps the most important example for my narrative, however, is that of superstition, and religion: key to Yocto\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s narrative, and Anne\u8217\'92s. An example of human autocosmics not relating to objective fact, of being irrational. Here, the narrative importance and interest, both inside and out, is most keenly seen; in the disconnect between the objective outside world and how it is parsed, reproduced and constructed by the human imagination. It is these \u8220\'93errors\u8221\'94 which offer much aesthetic potential.}}