{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 ArialMT;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 In Japan, anything which appears impressive inspires a sense of awe, or exhibits a life0force. }
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93Currently, personhood is often treated symbolically rather than factually - as an honorific, a promise to pretend that an entity is a person.\u8221\'94 }
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Japanese attribute souls to lots of different things - \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93non-human entities possess a spiritual essence\u8221\'94 (animism) - \u8220\'93animism rejects cartesian\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 OOP is animist - ascribing objectivity to concepts - you are defining the limitations of your reality. }
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 An animist approach to design - everything embued with life - little pantheons}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Panpsychism - universally regarded with skepticism, if not outright scorn (IEP on qualia)}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 But animism is not insisted on objective consciousness - it is a performance of consciousness in other beings for personal beenhit.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Turkle - \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93can tell the difference between animals and machines even if the machines appear to move by themselves\u8221\'94 - therefore the psychological life is most important. }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Turkle\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92 research reveals that we have a fluid ideal of alive - that we can create mental spaces fo consensus when we know something is not alive but can react to it as if it were - \u8220\'93[the children] seemed to be aware that this was a middle ground of some kind.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93Do they maintain such a distinction (between alive and not) when confronted with creatures that defy our usual expectations.\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Are we confused by what is alive and what isn\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92t? - not necessarily, but in the magic circle it seems to have the same effect on us. }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 \line A link to Pokemon,}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 "As will be argued in chapter 3, personhood is wide, and self-determined.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Personhood? Has to be a person? What does person mean? Our idea of personhood will update throughout the essay.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Include animals, and inanimate objects, even celestial bodies. Not just humans. 'persons'.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Pokemon - toys as well as games.Transmedia}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8216\'91Pocket monsters\u8217\'92 - reliquaries, familiars, daemons}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Like Miyamoto - came from insect collecting - microcosmics.}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Trap them in a pocket dimension - summon and command them. A lot of links.}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Fight other trainers - like magicians.}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Link with John Dee and angels.}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Evolving, transforming - evidence of people forming attachments with their pokemon?}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Pokedex - another form of paratext alongisde - encyclopedic - categorising progress and providing context.}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 A study of the insects in the mill windows?}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Accused of being occult! BUt really come from Japanese folklore.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Why we were addicted to tamagotchis - past tense}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93[x]and [x] created a needier world\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93My little pony plus the risk of imminent death\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Like a needy lover, we confused our tamagotchi\u8217\'92s digital clinginess for devotion\u8221\'94 - paracosm.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Tama-hackers - working out the algorithms.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Unwillingess to shield users from life\u8217\'92s most difficult reality\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Aki maita - hectic lifestyle - small apartment - tamagotchi born out of loneliness.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Reflecting shinto values. }}