{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 ArialMT;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Georgia-Italic;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Like language, games promote fictionality and virtuality}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Discover their own "narrative language" (Ryan) since their inception.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 every new technology of communication inspires novel combinations: printing allowed the wide distribution of illustrated books, and later of comics; photography gave birth to photonovels; cinema integrated animated images, music, spoken language and occasionally written text, and digital technology added interactivity to the many modes of film.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The affordances of language, pictures, movement, and music complement each other, and when they are used together in multi-modal media, each of them builds a different facet of the total imaginative experience}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Even so, the narrative incompleteness of images is a powerful generator of curiosity. - far more than a normal narrative. A simulation without language is just so.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Narrating without language (Laure Ryan) - games do this, surely? Ryan says that it is to degrees, and either uses a bit of language (in a title) to suggest narrative, or is a story already known to the user and must be - i disagree with thus, look at autocosmics! We build stories out of nothing.Unless they are just pictoral narrative- must have some sense of temporality. Time is important to narratives. Monophase (static) and ployphase (moving) pitctures (Wolf).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Leeuwen and Kress have brought the term 'multimodality'. But mine is also a transmedia approach.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 BArthes and Bremond wanted to open up narratology to other media - Were he alive today, he would add blogs, hypertext, and video games. (Marie Laure Ryan)}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Under the influence of Genette, narratology developed as a project almost exclusively devoted to literary fiction.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 For videogames - In the U.S., Bolter & Grusin (1999) proposed the concept of \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93remediation\u8221\'94 to explain the relations between different media. In their view, every new technology-based medium must be understood, in the context of other media, as an attempt to \u8220\'93remediate\u8221\'94 their limitations and get closer to the elusive goal of \u8220\'93achieving the real.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Video games, for instance, remediate film by incorporating narrative techniques commonly used in cinema within an interactive environment}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Wolf's 'intermediality' - the relationships between new forms and old. In videogames.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 in Wolf's terms, what I am doing is plurimediality and transmediality.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 For the narratologist, channel-type media are only interesting to the extent that they involve \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93differences that make a narrative difference\u8221\'94\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 in other words, to the extent that they function as both conduits and \u8220\'93languages.\u8221\'94 - Marie Laure Ryan, we can take computers as this, then!}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Empathy- It is quite automatic - relies mainly on non-verbal communication - suits the expressiveness of games, then.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Bickmore and Pickard - Come back to them later when they say that human expectation in a virtual agent is so high, it must be tempered to a certain degree - controlled by the author and context of the work (in chapter 2).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \line Can games fulfill Calvino\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s idea of a novel written outside the self?}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx-480\tx0\ri-998\sl360\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1 "aesthetic illusion is therefore a transmedial, transmodal and transgeneric phenomenon"}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0}