{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 ArialMT;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial-ItalicMT;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial-BoldMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red15\green117\blue3;\red251\green4\blue7;\red0\green3\blue255;}
{\*\listtable
{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f0\fs24\b0\i0\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f1\fs24\b0\i1\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid3}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 Do these definitions fit with our definitions of Anne, and Yocto?}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sl360\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 It is outside the purview of this thesis to talk about the nature of character, but we do have to briefly say: }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 What }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 do we mean, or }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 who}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ?}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sl360\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Very little coherent study of characters separate from their narrative apart from in the last 15 years. (Jannidis).}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs24\b0\i1	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93Idea of character undergoes variation in different phases of literature\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 (Bradbury, 2006).}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sl360\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Differing views of character from mere ingredient or device up to fully-fledged personhood. For some character is merely a negative space, }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 a procedural silhouette of }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93effects\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1  (Weinsheimer, 1979) in a plot or a simple}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93sum of binary oppositions\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (Jannidis, 2013)}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 . Indeed, EM Forster (195?) calls them }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93word-masses\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 . Mine is a romantic approach, according to Bradbury (2006), }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93separate [characters] from surrounding fictional determinants\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 rather than }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93humanised outcroppings from some larger verbal design.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Bradbury opposes this approach:}{\f1\fs24\b0\i1  \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93By definition in determined contexts\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  - are they really? There is definitely a move to see them outside of plot (narrative worlds rather than plot), especially in the modern world. Support for this comes from the legal profession. David Feldman (1981) (from a legal perspective) }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93increasingly, the commercial and popular appeal of fictional characters far surpasses the character\u8217\'92s role within the original work\u8221\'94 or \u8220\'93created outside the context of any specific work\u8221\'94.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  He argues that the work should not reign supreme. Characters are not just }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93components of the works in which they appear\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  Move up to transmedia and media theory today. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf4 (Needs expansion, possibly in chapter 2).}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 Hepola defines fictional realism for us. \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93}{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1 Fictional realism is the claim that fictional characters\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 things like Antigone, Hamlet, Shere Khan, the city of Minas Tirath, and the like\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 actually do exist. According to a fictional realist, fictional characters are full-fledged, metaphysically respectable entities. Ophelia and Minas Tirath are as existent and as much a part of the real world as Kierkegaard and Copenhagen are.\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1  }
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sl360\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 Following on from Hepola\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s point - we often see them as abstract entities but entities nonetheless (}{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8221\'94Meinongian non-existents, as Platonic types, or as abstract artifacts\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 ). Outside the realm of this essay, and my interests, to define the \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91reality\u8217\'92 of fictional characters (Though I will be assuming a form of reality later?), but we can state that they have some form of discursive reality, even if it is not objective. There exist concepts which are formed by concrete or mental material which we can speak around and about. Hepola splits this into attributes }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1 simpliciter}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1  and attributes \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93according to the story\u8221\'94, but obviously there are many more categories of attribute (headcanon, fan fiction, personal intrepretation etc.) }
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sl360\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf5	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf5 I, obviously, side with those who see characters as interrogable separately, though would I go as far as to say that they are distinct people beyond their plots? Yes, I think I would, though we often choose to judge them }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf5 in light }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf5 of those plots, if not always (fan fiction, head canon etc.). I don\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t want to spend too much time on this, because the nature of character is not really my main feature. I just want to be able to talk about characters as some form of constructed individual, not only to query them individually and personally, but also to query their construction.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 Beings and individuals (persons), not people or humans.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93One likes to think that there is some fantastic limbo for the children of imagination, some strange, impossible place where the beaux of Fielding may still make love to the belles of Richardson, where Scott\u8217\'92s heroes still may strut, Dickens\u8217\'92s delightful Cockneys still raise a laugh, and Thackeray\u8217\'92s worldlings continue to carry on their reprehensible careers. Perhaps in some humble corner of such a Valhalla, Sherlock and his Watson may for a time find a place, while some more astute sleuth with some even less astute comrade may fill the stage which they have vacated.\u8221\'94  }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 Arthur Conan Doyle}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 Partiality seems important as well; a function of perspective. As Laurel (1987) says, }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93characters, not people\u8221\'94; }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 characters cannot attempt to be complete 1:1 simulations of real beings. Weizenbaum (1971) says that }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93humans\u8230\'85 are vastly general-purpose machines\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 , but characters are designed for a purpose. Same with real people we meet! }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 A person we encounter }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93can never supply enough details to provide me with something resembling a complete picture of his life\u8230\'85 our personal histories are infinitely complex and ultimately unfathomable.\u8221\'94  }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 And Chris Crawford }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93dramatic characters behave differently from real people.\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b0\i1
\par\pard\plain \sl360\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0 Concrete Definitions}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sl360\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch \ls3\ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs24\b0\i1	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93Figures\u8221\'94 - }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Iotis Jannidis}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sl360\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch \ls3\ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs24\b0\i1	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93Word-masses\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - EM Forster}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sl360\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch \ls3\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 An }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93element\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 (Norton, Norton and McClure, 2003) }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs24\b0\i1	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93Fictional personalities\u8230\'85 one of the four main aspects of a fictional work.\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (Cunnington, 2015)}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs24\b0\i1	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93Bundles of traits, predispositions and choices that\u8230\'85 form coherent entities\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (Laurel 2013)}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs24\b0\i1	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93Counterfeit\u8230\'85 aspects of the human.\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (McCorduck, 1979)}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs24\b0\i1	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93Illusions\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (Murray, 1997)}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs24\b0\i1	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93Phantasms\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 (Plato)}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs24\b0\i1	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93Imaginary people\u8230\'85 nonexistents\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (Walton, 1997)}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs24\b0\i1	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93The fictional representation of a person\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 (Bradbury, 2006).}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf5  (A \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91person\u8217\'92 is different from \u8216\'91human\u8217\'92, as we will come to look at later)}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 .}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0}