{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 ArialMT;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial-BoldMT;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial-ItalicMT;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 SegoeUI;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red127\green4\blue127;\red225\green255\blue73;\red15\green117\blue3;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\listtable
{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb4\highlight4\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid6\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid6}
{\list\listtemplateid7\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid7}
{\list\listtemplateid8\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid8}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}{\listoverride\listid7\listoverridecount0\ls7}{\listoverride\listid8\listoverridecount0\ls8}}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 [[Woven into autocosmics section. This is the focus of my narrative, precisely because it is about the power of the human imagination, and its artistic potential beyond the modern concept of the \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93aesthetic\u8221\'94, and within our everyday lives. Examples of illusion going too far, depending on your viewpoint. Character beyond the \u8216\'91inciting representation\u8217\'92, or the \u8216\'91deliberate aesthetic experience\u8217\'92.]]}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0 Superstition}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 A very ancient (and very current!) form of human autocosmics: the attribution of causality to unknown or unrelated forces through cultural naivety or norms.}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93False causality is the basis for much superstition.\u8221\'94 \u8220\'93In the past gave order to a chaotic and unpredictable world.\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 Sir James Frazer's 'classic' (Hutton) definition of magic - practices designed to bring spiritual or supernatural forces under the control of human agents. Dealing with systems, complexity, the unknown\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85 (Plato) }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Magic is, in fact, everything that absolutely fascinates minds and attract souls by means of words and deeds\u8230\'85 they are difficult for the mind to perceive, and their causes are veiled from the simpleton. That is because it is a divine force associated with advanced reasons for the purpose of understanding it.\u8221\'94 "the world of popular belief and custom... practical remedies for specific problems" \u8220\'93The unknown with the belief, even amongst the superstitious, that there existed credible rules for its control.\u8221\'94}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1  }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4 Opies say that supersititon have too much weight as a word - could not ask about those}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 . }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 Ritual (Hutton) - }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4 "formal, dramatic and unusually stylized action".}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1  }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4 McClenon - shamanic ritual and placebo effect - actually is a signal to the body that it can survive. Those who are susceptible to placebo did get better.}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1  }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4 p97 - 100 - he talks about cargo cults as e.g. of religion as "intentional stance". "the raw materials of religion".}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1  }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4 Building on Boyer's work - systems in the human brain in tandem allow proto-religious thoughts. Hypnotism as the placebo effect, hallucinogens and ethnogens (building on McClenon's work).}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1  }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4 "supernormal stimuli" - bigger than life stimuli that we gravitate towards. Characters are examples of these. "a well-designed few" make it through to become solid ideas.}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1  }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4 "saturating the human environment with folk psychology"}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 . }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4 Religion as instinct, and may actually be better to have a general myth that everybody agrees on (and which we all end up following becausse everybody does) than misunderstanding the actual reason on our own. "better safe than sorry"}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93The word has long been used in a derogatory sense to describe what were perceived to be unfounded, credulous or heretical beliefs. Ancient Roman and Greek authors applied it to \u8216\'91uncivilised\u8217\'92 people outside the Classical world. The early Church used it in its campaign against the pagan religions which it ultimately vanquished.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 Skinner's work on superstition (i.e. the basal pattern matching) in pigeons. Is a version of autocosmics, of mental simulation, of causality. }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4 "In a species that does represent both itself and other agents to itself, the effect can be multiplied." }
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 When we speak about superstition generally, we are often talking about extra-religious or folk beliefs. v. relevant to my story. Anne lives in a time when \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91false\u8217\'92 inferences about the natural world were battling with both organised inferences (I.e. the Bible) and science. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 Davies - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4 magical activities were no longer considered as technically feasible but rather explicitly fraudulent pretences designed to fool the credulous\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 . (After Witchcraft Act of 1736). }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 Often called }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93the long 18th century}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 because of the perceived change in social, political and personal identities from 1700 to 1800.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf5\cb4\highlight4  Anne is placed right in the middle. }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Intellectually the whole basis for witchcraft and magic was being questioned.\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 (In Davies) John Dove \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4 foolish artifices\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8230\'85 against mischief merely imaginary\u8221\'94. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf3\cb4\highlight4 very negative, not as benign as now.The concept was a "cultural weapon" against the piopulace. }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4  }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 Superstition could be grouped under \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91popular magic\u8217\'92. Distinguished from \u8216\'91high magic\u8217\'92.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls3\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 But still lots of people believed in magic.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 Keith Thomas was the first point of academic reference in 70s - said magic \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91declined\u8217\'92 in 18th century. Fits with Enlightenment narrative. De Bleacourt and other recent scholars dispute this. }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93It was appropriated as an Enlightenment tool, and added to the arsenal of words used to enforce a self-conscious intellectual and cultural break with the past.\u8221\'94 \u8220\'93It is too crude and misleading to portray the Enlightenment as a period of intellectual and social leaps\u8221\'94 \u8220\'93Yet the majority of people across Europe undoubtedly felt exactly the same about witches, and much else besides, whether they lived in the early seventeenth century or the early nineteenth century.\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 Davies & de Blecourt (BTWT) }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93so-called enlightenment\u8221\'94. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 BTWT that it continued for centuries, despite the enlightenment. Brian Hoggard -}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4  \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93continuation and survival of witchcraft practices\u8221\'94. \u8220\'93The decline of magic was a slow and long drawn-out affair.\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 Gap between complex ambivalence of popular culture and the simplistic dichotomy preached by the church in relation to spirits. \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4 the debrus of many different thoughts.\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 (Thomas). }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93The line between orthodoxy and heresy [was] extremely thin\u8221\'94}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1  }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93The opposition between modern academic categories and contemporary indigenous ones.\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 The elite and the people often believed the same thing, but there were class-defined manifestations of superstition. Dyer deals with this an awful lot. Davies\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 demographic breakdown of visitors to cunning folk; many rich and educated people.Priests becoming cunning folk. Priests were often cunning-folk (or at least astrologers) - thought that they were helping their parishioners }
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls3\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 The Anglican Chrich \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93had long given up on trying to suppress popular magic at grassroots level\u8221\'94. \u8220\'93The attempt by the theologicans to wipe out the distinction between black and white witches by branding them both as diabolical never got through to the people to whom these witches ministered\u8221\'94 (thomas). }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\super\cf6\cb4\highlight4 Witchcraft Act not repealed until 1952 (from Hutton). }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 Examples from Anne\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s time - witch marks }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93making the world a safer, less hostile place.\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4  (Duncan Wilson, guardian article). Just a quick reference to the article on burying stuff in walls and floors, just like Anne does. Dolls cut in half, belt buckles, knives, human skull and cross-bones, a donkey buried under the barn. \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Spiritual armory of the house\u8221\'94 As Roberta Harding says - blood was used, aristocracy\u8217\'92s heads, from beheading, were sources of superstitious ingredients. Cultural nature of it - fulfilling a need as healthcare was bad. }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Superstitions function as a form of public healthcare\u8221\'94. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf3\cb4\highlight4 "individual christians seeking success and security in their daily lives by their own efforts". Systems are hard - therefore divination is a way to make these decisions. "candidates to press into service as decision aids"}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 Cunning folk -}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4  \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93provided numerous magical services to assuage the illnesses, fears, misfortunes and desires of the general populace\u8221\'94. "cunning folk seem to have been virtually immune from legal harrassment". \u8220\'93Two hundred years ago the majority of the population\u8230\'85 would have known at least one cunning-man or cunning-woman.\u8221\'94 \u8220\'93Individuals who straddled the worlds of both learned and low magic\u8221\'94. \u8220\'93Curing the mad, bad and sad\u8221\'94 - }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 sufferers of their autocosmics, or rather of the world! }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 Setting up \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93supernatural protection rackets\u8221\'94. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf3\cb4\highlight4 "rival therapists for the community's affliction". Demons were behind cunning-folk work, they said. }
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 Familiars (like the Spyrit) - }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93the affectionate and intimate relationship often found between the witch/cunning woman and her familiar/fairy\u8221\'94. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 Belief in fairies was much lesser.}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4  \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Both familiars and fairies were elieved to possess a range of supernatural powers that were considered capable of affecting almost any aspect of human life\u8221\'94. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 Parallel to the hobman,}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4  \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93living alone\u8230\'85 either alongside humans in their houses\u8221\'94. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 Characterised superstition. }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Substances such as ale or milk were often poured on springs, trees and rocks sacred to fairies, while bowls of bread, milk or water and suchlike were left in the kitchen overnight for the domestic hobman\u8221\'94. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 Familiars - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93clearly-defined, three-dimensional\u8230\'85 forms, vivid with colour and animated with movement and sound\u8221\'94 - just like computer character!}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4  \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93This old hag travelled with a Guinea pig in her breast, which she pretended solved questions\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4  - autocosmic pets.The Devil as a character - a person only experienced through mediation - witch trials, saying his name etc. Belief in \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93brownies\u8221\'94 \u8220\'93liv[ing] alongside humans in theor own houses and farms\u8221\'94, working by night, cannot be controlled, only supplicated by cream and porridge on the hearth. Belief in fairies persisted in Scotland, but waned in England. Changelings, superstitious use of wells, 2nd sight (again in Scotland, p. 87). Marks funereal rituals (and perhaps ghosts and spirit systems) as a tension between inability to remove one's intentional stance to the dead other and needing to remove the physical, possibly diseased physical reminder of them. And that these characters could evolve, free of physical reality, }
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls4\ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb4\highlight4 Animal forms, not particularly supernatural. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 Perhaps because of fear of the unnatural as being outside God, also because animals formed a symbiotic relationship with everyday people. (Wilby) }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93The familiar most frequently appeared in animal form, often living in domestic intimacy with the witch.\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls5\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 Consensus - not necessarily belief, but a socially-mandated \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91playing\u8217\'92, a magic circle, in many regards. Dyer (BTWT) asserts that from the sufferer\u8217\'92s perspectives, it was an autocosmic maelstrom both informed by their supernatural beliefs and social/familial expectations - the cunning-person allowed \u8216\'91blessed relief\u8217\'92 - a consensual end to the autocosmics. \u8220\'93Genuine respect moderated by doses of cynicism\u8221\'94. This time period was definitely when the magic circle started to actually grow in strength - difference between affirmative ritual and truth.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\super\cf6\cb4\highlight4 "R.R Marrett agreed that ritual was essential and belief secondary... emotion rather than reason was the key" (398)}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0 Religion}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls6\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 Dennett: \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93We can analuse the artifice in religious texts and ceremonies just as we can analuse the artifice in literature in other arts." (154). }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf3\cb4\highlight4 "Design and techniques" of religion, "amalgam of brilliant plays and stratagems". "religion's contrary" - of course, we can draw the same autocosmic arguments about religion. Church people - "unbridgeable gulf between... religion and magic". }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf3\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf3\cb4\highlight4 Evolutionary theory applied to religious beliefs - have survived over time because they seem to work. "folk religions" - pretty much superstitions organise - "vestigial traces" in organised religion. "evolved product of many adjustements". "free-floating rationales" -> "carefully-crafted reasons". Linking it to memes - infectious ideas. Belief is the core differentiation between superstition and religion. }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf3\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf3\cb4\highlight4 Talks about the commeasurate evolutionary fitness of language and religion, both to "genetic fitness" and "cultural fitness" - clear benefits, mutualists. In religion, resonance is the ultimate - they will die, not just be bad, if not used.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf3\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf3\cb4\highlight4 folk religion is superstition and organised religion is different - in the previous (according to Dennett) people don't think of themselves as practicing a religion - it is just life. Relgiion is more like art, a bounded space outside of life. Therefore let us think of art more like folk art.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls6\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 Difficult to separate superstition and religion: both rely on autocosmic simulation: to seek patterns, to mentally simulate, to create complex narrative out of sensory and mental percepts. Brown and Holden - science and magic, to the layman, differ only in idiom. Both rely on character, gods as agents (Dennett). Holy texts provide characters that have resonated for thousands of years - Muhammad, Jesus, the prophets. They are both allegorical and individual. Gods are manifestations of the autocosmic, and our relationship with the world around us.}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4  \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93magic and religion - \u8220\'93terms notoriously difficult to define\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\ltrch\loch \ls7\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 For Harding, they are }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93a manifestation of humankind\u8217\'92s longstanding effort to comprehend the elementary principles of good and evil.\u8221\'94 \u8220\'93powerful manifestations of our own fears and hopes and dreams. The invention - the finding within of gods represents our reach for the transcendent.\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 McCorduck - }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93human yearning for the transcendent\u8221\'94.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 The.emergence.of.stories.may.have.begun.with.shamanistic.or.early.religious.beliefs.resulting.from.an.expansion.of.the.concept.of.theory.of.mind.(Boyer,.2001)..For.Boyer.(2001),.religious.beliefs. are.theorized.to.stem.from.two.constraints:.a.salience.constraint.and.an.inferential.constraint..The. salience.constraint.stresses.that.the.belief.must.be.conspicuous:.drawing.attention.to.its.novelty,. often.by.breaking.the.laws.of.nature..The.representation.is.circumscribed.to.some.extent.by.the. inferential.constraint:.Inferences.must.be.allowed.regarding.the.intention.of.the.object.or.agent..A. storyteller,.through.an.expansive.theory.of.mind,.could.place.himself.or.herself.in.the.mind.of.an. agent.or.object..For.example,.a.storyteller.could.claim.that.a.river.has.talked.to.her.(salience.constraint),.and.the.fact.that.the.river.spoke.is.a.sign.that.the.hunting.season.will.not.be.fruitful.this.year.(inferential.constraint)..Thus,.the.storyteller,.through.an.expansive.theory.of.mind,.can.bring.mean- ing.to.the.community..This.meaning-making.ability.could.then.be.extended.to.other.contextsIn.the.prehistoric.period,.humans.may.initially.have.attempted.to.understand.phenomena.such.as. fertility.through.stories.ascribing.personality.characteristics.to.unseen.characters..Festinger.(1983). suggested.that.those.who.could.bring.meaning.to.the.community.by.discerning.supernatural.phe- nomena.would.become.the.elite..Perhaps.effective.storytellers,.who.could.create.meaning.by.telling. stories.about.such.subjects.as.gods.in.conflict,.would.have.had.an.advantage.in.prehistoric.society.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 An illusion, but did Calvino think that it was \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93high\u8221\'94 fantasy\u8221\'94?}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4  - }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4 "the believer is called upon personally to paint frescoes crowded with figures on the walls of his mind, starting out from the stimuli that his visual imagination succeeds in extracting from the theological proposition of a laconic verse from the gospels". }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 Critics made the links between literature (specifically poetry) and religion/play, particularly religion of individual people, rather than liturgy. (Huizinga).}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\ltrch\loch \ls7\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 Big links between superstition in the time period that I am looking at and religion: many of the grimoires used religious language, particularly Catholic (re. Book of Soyga), \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93relics of old Catholicism\u8221\'94 in popular culture. }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4 Catholicism possessed a fundamental vehicle\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8230\'85 ability to use visual communication.\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4  Cunning folk techniques }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93often contained a large component of Christianity\u8221\'94, }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 and }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93the Bible\u8230\'85 [was] regularly treated as a magical object in itself\u8221\'94; \u8220\'93made a show of using the Bible in their consulting rooms\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 . Examples of priests who were cunning folk, or who believed in the power of superstition. }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Cunning-folk borrowed from Catholic practices\u8221\'94. \u8220\'93No known case of a cunning person or charmer calling upon a pagan deity\u8221\'94. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 Clergy were the biggest users and makers of magical books.}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4  \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Intrinsic Christian content of magic.\u8221\'94 \u8220\'93}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 dusty Catholic mysticism\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 Examples of what would probably be called \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93aesthetic illusion\u8221\'94 in religion - Boxley Rood - people were complicit in magic circle, not duped or fooled - \u8216\'91pretended\u8217\'92 it was a real miracle, gave donations to the monks. But why did they pretend? Part of their wider autocosmic relationship with the world, \u8220\'93more complicated\u8221\'94 than simply belief or pantomime.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  A}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4  \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93theatrical miracle\u8221\'94 (Groeneveld). Criticism tied to \u8220\'93sweeping away of Catholic mysticism\u8221\'94. Stories about it getting down, attacking women, could both worship and be entertained by them. \u8220\'93personal affective responses\u8221\'94. A piece of installation art, just like Yocto.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 Groeneveld states that removing and parading the Rood before destruction was designed to decontextualise it, to bring it into the \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93harsh light of day\u8221\'94 rather than the theatrical settings of the monastery. The spoilsporting is really interesting here. (Murray) Religious services are designed as narrative bottlenecks, to control people\u8217\'92s exposure to the machinery of the divine - not fraudulent, merely reliant on both sides performing in a certain way, after being given the furniture of the suspension of disbelief. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 Bocca Della Verita - a proto-arcade autocosmic machine. (still a massive queue to see it)}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 Prayers being answered - we are in a performative state of mind to see a \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91sign\u8217\'92, or a way. Acheiropoieta - religious images made without human intervention - Turin Shroud, images in toast.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs24\b0\i1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4 "a certain element of 'make-believe' is operative in all primitive religions... the really important thing is the //mood//."}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93What becomes of the divintiy when it reveals itself in icons, when it is multiplied in simulacra\u8230\'85 the visible machinery of icons substituted for the pure and intelligble Idea of God?\u8221\'94 - against baudrillard idea - icons and \u8220\'93graven images\u8221\'94 excite the imagination. People were \u8220\'93content to venerate a filigree God\u8221\'94 \u8220\'93already enacting his death and his disappearance in the eipophany of his representations\u8221\'94 - this is a big subject, but I don\u8217\'92t think that God disappears because he is an icon, or into his icons. \u8220\'93But what if God can be sumulated\u8230\'85 can be reduced to the signs that constitute faith? Then the whole system becomes weightless.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 Like superstition, religion is an example of autocosmic phenomenon outside of the purely literary or artistic: an interactive parlay with our own minds and the minds of those around us, with a wide magic circle and a powerful narrative and character-led streak; something before which we are not entirely helpless, but which we instead luxuriate ourselves in.}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4  \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Ah, you realize that magick is something we do to ourselves. But it is more convenient to assume the objective existence of an angel who gives us new knowledge than to allege that our invocation has awakened a supernormal power in ourselves.\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4  (Kaczynski, 542)}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aiwass#cite_note-Veale-11"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0\super\cf6\cb4\highlight4 [}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\super\cf6\cb4\highlight4 11. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 Dogma is the contradictory heart of human religion. Religion is born and thrives on autocosmics; dogma seeks to control the human imagination and conscious thought. It never works, not completely.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1 Superstition-As-Autocosmics Today}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch \ls8\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Even though principles of rationality seem as often violated as followed, we still cling to the notion that human thought should be rational, logical and orderly.\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 (Donald Norman). }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Reason has not ended our relationship with magic.\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 (Davies).}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Even in today\u8217\'92s technologically advanced and scientifically sophisticated society, they continue to be part of the cultural landscape.\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 (Roberta Harding). }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf3\cb4\highlight4 "fossil traces of animism" in how we treat modern-day things. "treat things as agents with beliefs and desires" (Dennett). "astrology-seekers and numerologists who still inhabit our high-tech Western culture".Links belief in primitive forces to our own beliefs in what we cannot see and touch (atoms etc.)}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 Often confine it to children, and indeed much research has been done on the superstitions of children, most notably the Opies on the work of \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93half-beliefs\u8221\'94 of children in the 1950s. (Hickling & Wellman 2001), particularly in how they conduct animism (Turkle, Gjersoe) and have imaginary friends (Gjersoe, Marjorie Taylor). But much research has also been done into how this can extend into adulthood (Gjersoe, Leonards, Connelly, Bloom & Hood, 2009), and how these initial ways of looking at the world are not shrugged off, but change throughout our lives.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch \ls8\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 Religion is still a mightily powerful force in the world: the power of words, the vividness of its literary characters, the belief in a supernatural influence over the world, the constant autocosmic searching for answers within established frameworks.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 Hutton questions whether cunning-craft ever died out - merely metamorphosed into "alternative" therapies of today.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch \ls8\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 Also still extremely superstitious. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 Study in 2009 (Theos) 39% of adults believe in ghosts, 22% believe in reincarnation and 22% believe in astrology.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4  Belief in cunning folk persisted into the twentieth century, and scholars like Hutton believes that there is a continuum with modern day superstitious behaviour, buoyed by scientific progress. Older writers (such as Malinowski) believed that magical thinking and superstition in the modern age is clearly non-Western and \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91savage\u8217\'92 in nature. Not true at all. Even with scientific advancement, our autocosmics are not completely controllable by reason, and the line between \u8216\'91healthy\u8217\'92 and \u8216\'91unhealthy\u8217\'92 autocosmics is very thin}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 .}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4  OCD as an example(), homeopathy(), clean eating(), animism in the elderly with dementia (}{\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 Zaitchik and Solomon 2008}{\f3\fs26\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 )}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4  .}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1  }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 Belief in astrology is still quite high, }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4 "astrology is pervasive in Western society", even amongst science students ().}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4  We still approach much of the world in a }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93pre-theoretical\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4  (Ullman), naive manner, creating our own narratives, and culturally-enforced narratives, for the way things are.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1  And creating }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 characters is a big part of that! Still use anthropomorphism in our science (names of stars, and the Zodiac). }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 "The paranormal [for some] determines the devisions they may make about important events in their lives". }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 Legare & Souza (2012) - rituals are a "cognitive paradox". 'simpatias' in Brazil - "intutive causal principles" - time of day, repetition of procedures - just like with the creature! Relate this forward to manuals/grimoires. It *seems" like they should work. And "transcendental influence" (presence of religious iconography - make rituals more effective. The character of ritual, the setting, the context, the techniques used to stimulate the autocosmic (just like character).}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch \ls3\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 Even less dramatic than this: at a low level, our brains are geared towards find causal links from seeming correlations, maintaining internal logic when we cannot maintain total external logic, as the world outside is not completely known. This combined with counter-factual thinking (), imagining alternatives to the world as we know it, can have powerful effects on us psychologically and physically, and change our behaviour to maintain those states. Often made worse by stress (Keinan, 1994). The Barnum Effect(), the Placebo Effect (Neil 1980, Van Raalte, Brewer, Nemeroff and Linder 1991), conducting rituals when mourning reduces grief (Norton & Gino, 2013), Simulation Heuristic (Kahneman and Tversky) and how it can go wrong amongst those with clinical anxiety (Raune, Macleod and Holmes 2005) (Nan & her not getting on her tram at the last minute, plane crash survivors who changed flights at the last minute) - and}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1  lo}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 ts of research has been done into how rituals before sports can change our performance (Foster & Weigand 2006, Mamassis and Doganis 2003, Damisch, Stoberock and Mussweiler 2010); indeed, in }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93any situation where the outcome is important and uncertain and beyond their control\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 . And even when we do not directly \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91believe\u8217\'92 in the causation at hand, just doing the actions can have positive psychological effects. Within a \u8216\'91magic circle\u8217\'92. }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Unnecessary to consciously believe in the superstition.\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 Pareidolia - seeing faces.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93The power of positive thinking has been proven to have physiological beenfits, and so, in this sense at least, magic may have worked.\u8221\'94 }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Merely providing a concrete diagnosis of witchcraft could have a beneficial, psychosomatic effect.\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\ltrch\loch \ls3\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4  The same apparatus that we use to enjoy stories, to augment and create characters ourselves, is used out in the \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93real\u8221\'94 world. }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb4\highlight4 "Each one of us is now forced to do for ourselves what in previous ages was done by family, custom, church, and state - namely, create for ourselves the myths that will let us make some sense of experience."}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4  (May)}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\ltrch\loch \ls3\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93[Collingwood] says there is a term for the techniques of deliberate evocation of specific emotions, though it is usually applied to cultures other than our own. This term is 'magic'. In our society too such techniques abound: producing warm feelings towards other members of our community or hostile feelings towards members of other communities, inducing preference for a politician, prompting an inclination to buy a particular product. Such ordinary magic is not pseudo-science, but pseudo-art. Thriller writing is a form of such ordinary magic, it involves using words and actions in a preconceived plan to have a calculated emotional effect.\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4  (Oatley).}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\ltrch\loch \ls3\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 "intentional object" - that which is the focus of our pattern-matching.}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1
\par\pard\plain \sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0}