{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 ArialMT;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial-ItalicMT;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial-BoldMT;}{\f4\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial-BoldItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red15\green117\blue3;\red225\green255\blue73;}
{\*\listtable
{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf3\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f4\fs24\b1\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid5}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf3\cb4\highlight4 The narrative, and thus character, of Anne, Yocto and the others in lots of different forms, and expressed in different ways - the }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf3\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93paratextual\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf3\cb4\highlight4  (Genette) material of my PhD (the website etc.), the installation itself, the Housekeeping - but the focus of my work, at least from a theoretical and critical point of view, is the }{\f2\fs24\b0\i0\cf3\cb4\highlight4 masterbeast}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf3\cb4\highlight4  - the computational artwork or component at the installation\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s heart, and to which everything else is centred. It is the part about which I am least certain, and open to the most unique contribution, and theoretical difficulty.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf3\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf3\cb4\highlight4 I began as a writer - came to making art with computers late (BCP etc.) - and has proved an interesting and continuing challenge to me as a practitioner. Large part of the PhD was to afford myself the time and space to learn new techniques and theory, as well as bringing my own (unique, perhaps dilletante or interdisciplinary) perspective to the creation of characters as part of computational art.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f3\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1\cb4\highlight4
\par\plain {\f3\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 One More Definition - How Am I Defining Digital Computational Art?}
\par\plain \f3\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1\cb4\highlight4
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 Lots of different terms, ideas and affordances wrapped up in this, so I want to clarify - especially what sets it apart from the other media in Project }{\f2\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 knole}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 . It isn\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t trying to be comprehensive - just want to define those things that we are interested in by linking them by a particular set of qualities that they share, from a methodological perspective - that is, in their physical medium, the tools that an artist could potentially employ to create that artwork.}
\par\plain \f4\fs24\b1\i1\ul\ulc0\cf1\cb4\highlight4
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f4\fs24\b1\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f4\fs24\b1\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u8216\'91New Media\u8217\'92 }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4 (Manovich) covers it in part, but this includes non-artistic media, more utilitarian media. Computational art is, arguably, a subset of new media, or is certainly included within its Venn. Tavinor confines his definition of games to 'visual media' - but I'm interested in the computation, rather than the visual element, which is a part of the representation, and is not unique. }
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4 Not }{\f4\fs24\b1\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u8216\'91digital\u8217\'92 }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4 - a bugbear. Manovich states that it has been used too much in discourse. Talking about the technology rather than what it affords or allows in terms of art. Also \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8216\'91digital art\u8217\'92 can just mean using the computer as part of production.The rise of the computer as a \u8220\'93universal media machine\u8221\'94 (Manovich, p69) - this is just reproducing artworks from other media. We are not interested in this, but \u8216\'91digital\u8217\'92 is part of what distinguishes our version of \u8216\'91computational\u8217\'92, and it will be implicit within it. Not all digital tools are computational in and of themselves.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4 Not to do with }{\f4\fs24\b1\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u8216\'91technology'}{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4 , as the book is a technology; want to move away from that discussion. A naturalised one, one to which we are wedded and almost don\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92t think about. \u8220\'93Eventually, all successful storytelling technologies become \u8216\'91transparent\u8217\'92\u8221\'94 - I would like to contribute to this. \u8220\'93Technology is the abstract by which people engage with technics\u8221\'94 - making things work - too general. As Mullaney says, art and technology are \u8220\'93inextricably linked\u8221\'94 - technology does not distinguish this artform.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4 Not }{\f4\fs24\b1\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u8216\'91game\u8217\'92 }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4 - though videogames are what I am looking at primarily (Ryans middle-of-the road-art comment, most examples, largest audience, and we are interested in audience). Games are a subset, imposes restrictions lexically and associatively, if not actually, on what we can talk about. Is a very naturalistic expression of computational art. Also have \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93long, non-wired histories\u8221\'94 (NWF and Pat Harrigan). No words must design says \u8220\'93it\u8217\'92s adaptable to any and every technology, from the neolithic to the high tech\u8221\'94. Much of the response/criticism I will be using is tied to games, but I will try to uncouple any specificities. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 "Games \~are \~perhaps \~the \~first \~designed \~interactive systems \~our \~species \~invented." He sees game as covering all "interactive experiences" - "interactive entertainment //means// games" - but it is a word that is controversial in the discourse currently, and is part of the issues with computational characters. We are looking at things outside of games. \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Rule-based formal system with a variable and quantifiable outcome\u8221\'94 - like parts of this - \u8220\'93causally-linked series of challenges in a simulated environment\u8221\'94 (Adams & Rollings) - also has parts of it which are useful. Disagree with Juul\u8217\'92s & S+Z\u8217\'92s definition of a \u8216\'91quantifiable outcome\u8217\'92 - maybe for a game, but not for the computer. The computer allows art to have different qualities and potentials, many of which it shares with games. Samyn and Harvey say that games are not art, but rather we have \u8220\'93real-time art\u8221\'94. The videogames industry is strangling artistry. \u8220\'93Not games\u8221\'94, and artgames (Felen Parker).  As a new form of media and pop culture, computer and video games also participate in global cultural trends in a way that board games do not."}
\par\pard\plain \li720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 Difference between paida (simulation) and ludus (game) - a game has winners and losers, both have rules. Rules are the thing. Making them computational implicitly includes things like rules. And the binary logic of ludus is too restrictive.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4 Not }{\f4\fs24\b1\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u8216\'91interactive\u8217\'92 }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4 - even worse than \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93game\u8221\'94 or \u8220\'93digital\u8221\'94. Manovich sees it as too broad to be useful.  All art is interactive (reader-response) and Manovich (56) - points to film montage and participatory art in the 1960s. Some argue that interactivity must be materially interactive (Andy Cameron), Salen + Zimmerman allow}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4  for a \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91multivalent model of interactivity\u8217\'92. Cognitive Interactivity, Functional Interactivity, Explicit Interactivity and Beyond-The-Object interactivity interactivity. So while explicit interactivity is often a *more* unique selling point of games, not unique. }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93None of these definitions resolve the question of whether or not all media, or even all experiences, are interactive.\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 Re. Laurel -}{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4  \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93people seemed to regard interactivity as the unique cultural discovery of the electronic age\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4  - not true, of course. Zimmerman - }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4 "have you ever seen such a suspicious set of slippery and ambiguous, overused and ill-defined terms?" No words must design - interactivity doesn\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92t mean much. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 Klug makes point that it is interacting with story or interacting with medium - but that\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s not what is important. We will take it as implied. Almost implicitly includes interaction these days. Forum theatre (Frasco) is also interactive. Newman points out that games do not just derive their pleasure through interaction. Ergodic (Aarseth) might be better)}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f4\fs24\b1\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f4\fs24\b1\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u8216\'91Non-linear\u8217\'92}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4  is not necessarily the word we are looking for, or }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8216\'91dynamic\u8217\'92}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 . Can mean different things in different media. Oulipo - writing as constrained, as imaginative, vindicating the constraints of gamemaking, and }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 Jean Pierre Enard\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s multiple choice theatre }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93}{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4 Oulipan texts thus become the literary consequences of these axioms}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 - the emergent experiences of rules. Non-linear books (examples? Inc. Recipes books and guidebooks, \u8216\'91random-access nature\u8217\'92 of books), non-linear plays (examples?)}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 Computational gets to the heart of what separates this type of art from others. That is, the manipulation and transformation of information, in real time, is an intrinsic part of the artistic expression - things are computed. Still not a perfect term - Oulipo could be considered \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91computational art\u8217\'92, and computation is not strictly digital - (other examples? Improvisational theatre?) - so we need to prefix it with something like \u8216\'91digital\u8217\'92, \u8216\'91electrical\u8217\'92, \u8216\'91modern\u8217\'92 - but perhaps I can take it to be implied that I am referring to }{\f3\fs24\b1\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 any form of human artistic expression which uses the computational abilities of modern, digital computer technology as a thematically integral and intentional part of the author\loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8217\'92s expression and/or the audience\u8217\'92s experience of that work}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 . Zimmerman - They can network remote locations, manipulate large amounts of information, automate complex processes, and provide very immediate feedback for actions a player takes.}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f3\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 Quick Aside - The \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93Art\u8221\'94 Debate (Apologise for It)}
\par\plain \f4\fs24\b1\i1\ul\ulc0\cf1\cb4\highlight4
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls3\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 Not interested in this: has been too large a debate, too complex. I\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92m assuming that what I am talking about is a form of art. Ebert says it isn\u8217\'92t art, Moriarty backs him up. Kellee Santiago\u8217\'92s responses to him.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93countless writers have weighed in on this question\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4  (Zimmerman); the argument has been had elsewhere, and can get very deep, though often it seems to be based on personal opinion. Whether or not it is art is not really an interesting debate here. I don\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t have the time or space to get into it. }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93any work characterized by an obvious aesthetic element is to be deemed a work of art.\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 I'm not calling the entire medium 'high art' but it is an 'artform'. As Santiago says, they aren\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t all art. We don't ask the same of books to say that books are art. Arbitrary in all media, so we just say that they *can be* art.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 Recognised in law (Canada, US) and protected as free speech.  "Like the protected books, plays, and movies that preceded them, video games communicate ideas\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 and even social messages\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 through many familiar literary devices (such as characters, dialogue, plot, and music) and through features distinctive to the medium (such as the player's interaction with the virtual world). That suffices to confer First Amendment protection."}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls3\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 It makes no sense to exclude computational media. It is not special in positive or negative way - just another \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93tool to think with\u8221\'94 (Turkle). }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93Many of us still see the machine as a threat rather than an ally. We cling to books as if we believed that coherent human thought is only possible on bound, numbered pages}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94. Just an issue of naturalisation (back to this idea of technology).}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 Perhaps a generic issue, confusing the nature of medium with the products existing in that medium - }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4 "cheap, gaudy, violent, unpleasant, degraded pop-culture entertainments for ill-read, ill-mannered little boy brats\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 . But comic books, film, even novels were considered this way!}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls3\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 Murray -}{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4  \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93We often assume that stories told in one medium are intrinsically inferior to those told in another\u8221\'94, \u8220\'93Narrative beauty is independent of medium\u8221\'94, the \u8220\'93real liteary hierarchy is not of medium, but of meaning\u8221\'94.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 As this thesis will show intrinsically, computational media are capable of}{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4  \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93reflecting reality\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 , are }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93performances\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 , (well-played game), }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93engage the social reality of the player\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4  (Crowley).}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4 Costikyan -  \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93a game designer is an artist, working in the medium of games\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb4\highlight4
\par\plain {\f3\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 What Does \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8216\'91Computational Art\u8217\'92 Include?}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4 (NB: Many of these terms are defined by the artists that create them)}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls4\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 Videogames}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls4\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 Not necessarily \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91serious\u8217\'92 Games, but some of them.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls4\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 Interactive Experiences and \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91notgames\u8217\'92}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls4\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 Interactive Fictions & Certain Cybertexts (if intended as artwork) (aarseth)}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls4\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 Digital Visual Art made with things like Processing (but digitally-represented artwork)}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls4\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 Multimedia Art Installations}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls4\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 Virtual Reality Pieces}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls4\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 Robotics - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93We can be talking about robots as well - robots differ from objects only in that their sensors and effectors have physical rather than logical effects." the creature is kind of a robot.\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls4\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 Algorithmic Art (such as demoscene stuff)}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls4\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 Some of what Broeckmann calls }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93machine art\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 , though not the stuff that is just \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93art about machines or \u8220\'93art made by machines\u8221\'94, but really }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93engagement of artists with technical systems\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 .}{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb4\highlight4  "no conclusive answer to the question"}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4  of what it is.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls5\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 All of these are computational art, but not all of them use or privilege character and character-led narrative - just part of the definition. We are interested in characters in computational art.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 While I will be mainly focussing on what we call \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91videogames\u8217\'92, that term is troublesome, and muddies the debate. Not the only things that are computational art that contain characters, but that is my main literacy.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 MORE IN DRAFT}}