{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 ArialMT;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial-BoldMT;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red225\green255\blue73;\red251\green4\blue7;}
{\*\listtable
{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid6\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid6}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0\cb3\highlight3 Potential Of Computational Art For Creating Characters & Their Narratives}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0\cb3\highlight3
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cb3\highlight3 What Is Similar?}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0\cb3\highlight3
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Like all artforms, not all computational art is concerned with narrative and character - a lot is though (videogames and interactive fiction most consistently). }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Ludologists disagree - both sides seeking a Platonic ideal. Eskelinen\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s ludicrous comparison to a ball \u8220\'93starts telling stories\u8221\'94 - nobody is saying that! - \u8220\'93 "mechanics and story can have an important role to play in a game" - Henry Jenkins\u8217\'92 \u8220\'93not-not-narrative\u8221\'94, Aarseth and Juul against games as stories - Frasca sees it as \u8220\'93simulation vs. Narrative\u8221\'94 (2003) - he says it is bunkum. Aarseth sees them as \u8220\'93machines or sign-generators\u8221\'94 - I agree, but that does not mean that we are not authoring stories, or that artists do not need to approach it as an exercise in storytelling.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 In general, their aim vis-a-vis characters is no different from any other form of art - to create characters of quality, that have resonance - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93arrogant\u8221\'94 to assume that other artforms aren\u8217\'92t concerned with the same things. Characters which the audience can imaginatively and emotionally connect with and augment themselves, how they }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93affect us, move us, impact us and make us reflect\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3  (Mullaney). This is not controversial that games do this. }
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Computational characters still fit our definition at the start. It is artificially partial (not a complete human being - }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93an agent is just a set of sentences\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3  (Praxis article), and videogame characters are collections of assets operating in a system, a }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93set of silicon circuits and unfeeling connectors\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3  (Half-Life Bots) - pursuit of \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93strong AI\u8221\'94 is mostly discredited, making a human, nor is this important to what I am doing). Indeed, the extent or nature of their partiality may be the issue. }
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Still individual - with OOO, even more so than in stories because they are modular, rather than serial, or perhaps part of the system still - part of the artwork, but individually recognisable in the way we talked about in last chapter.Can\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t necessarily separate the characters from the experience of the game itself - or should we? Must set up the whole experience. Like before, we are not trying to separate characters from their containing work - maybe just saying that they are not a single mode within a story - the story must be viewed from their perspective.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Still represented in a medium, }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93realises an environment\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3  (Laurel) not that interested in what the medium is - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93sensation\u8221\'94 (perception) for LeBlanc (Costikyan) and \u8220\'93narrative\u8221\'94 - creating a representation - either physical, virtual or in between, like mine. }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Presence in game world\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 - sometimes completely virtual, sometimes involves the real world.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 It is perceived and processed by a \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91player\u8217\'92 or \u8216\'91user\u8217\'92, who is engaging in a }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93lusory attitude\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3  (Bernard Suits, other people who talk about this?), }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 expression\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 , }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93masochism\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3  (reception contract), }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 a }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93fantasy\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3  (LeBlanc), an intentional stance. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 reader response applies. ". Gaming connects well with this theory because it is such an active event where meaning is creating within a certain contextt between the game and the gamer." - a 'transaction' (Sanders) - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93discovery\u8221\'94 is a \u8220\'93game pleasure\u8221\'94 - HCI book \u8220\'93partnership\u8221\'94 with computer. - \u8220\'93generic user\u8221\'94, or \u8220\'93several specific users\u8221\'94 (HCI book) - or \u8220\'93personae\u8221\'94 - what terms in QA - \u8220\'93enjoyment\u8221\'94, \u8220\'93emotional response\u8221\'94 - \u8220\'93stakeholder\u8221\'94 (a term for user\u8221\'94 - \u8220\'93reader\u8221\'94, in textual theory}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3  It has its beginnings in a creative act (an authoring) - by a human designer, at some point (maybe not direct authoring, though) }
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 They act and behave - indeed, they are \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91agents\u8217\'92 which still, by the same processes described in the last chapter, constitute a narrative, and thus games form narratives themselves (despite ludology (Juul) vs. Narratology debate, S+Z believe games tell narrative, Ryan sees games and literary texts as two different narrative modalities, Espen Aarseth saw them as post-narrative\u8221\'94 and Henry Jenkins \u8220\'93not-not-narrative\u8221\'94.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Their narratives, and characters, and the experience of them, as still perceived and judged by particular markers of quality - reviews, thinkpieces - key aim of game authors to create resonant characters. The audience\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s role in creating that character is still very important, an interplay of their imaginations and the unique potentials of the game itself. Lankoski\u8217\'92s \u8220\'93allegiance\u8221\'94, judgement and }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 (for lankovski) eliciting sympathy or antipathy based on this. \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Recognition\u8221\'94, \u8220\'93alignment\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 So computational art shares enough of the same qualities and aims as other narrative artforms to make studying computational character through similar filters worthwhile. But what makes them different, both from other artforms generally and artforms before it specifically? Are there fundamental differences that require a different approach, or certainly a modified approach? Not completely different, and not completely the same. }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Though there is much to be learned form traditional narratives\u8230\'85 [not] understanding their fundamental differences, the discourse becomes ultimately irrelevant\u8221\'94.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 How Different?}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Often talk about \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93unique\u8221\'94 potential - a break from previous media. Not necessarily unique (look at last section) but Brendan Keogh calls it \u8220\'93particular\u8221\'94 - \u8220\'93maybe all media forms are immersive or interactive in one form or another, and video gams are just immersive and interactive in particular ways\u8221\'94 Manovich points out that the potentials of computational media have been seen elsewhere - but more prevalent now, and more focussed.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sa160\sb160\ltrch\loch \ls3\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Unlike old art, is not \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93hardwired\u8221\'94 (Manovich), but }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93variable\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 , }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93movement from object to signal\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3  (Manovich) - is a living system that changes its outputs according to inputs. Not a fixed, diegetic structure. Narrative is not fixed, elements are not fixed; instead, a }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93framework\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 (Costikyan) a \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93space of possibility\u8221\'94, }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93the aesthetics of interactive systems\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 (S+Z) Still representational, but those representations (also called \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93embedded\u8221\'94), Forcier\u8217\'92s }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93static units\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3  are dealt with \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91procedurally\u8217\'92, combined and processed as units of info in a system of info. \u8216\'91Runs\u8217\'92 according to \u8216\'91rules\u8217\'92, has \u8220\'93emergence\u8221\'94 (S+Z), }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93flexible and organic\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3  (Zimmerman) - }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93machines \~of \~inputs \~and \~outputs \~that \~are \~inhabited, manipulated, \~and \~explored.\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3  (Zimmerman). \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Procedural\u8221\'94 (Bogost) and (Murray)}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch \ls4\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Different for author - creating a system, a \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93rule-based formal system\u8221\'94 (Juul) - not telling one story - }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93second-order design\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3  (S+Z). Creating the \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91potential\u8217\'92 for narrative to take place through manipulation or observation of a system. The themes, the potential narratives. }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Narrative systems\u8221\'94 - "the middle-space between interaction and immersion, where the produral meets the encyclopedic and the participatory meets the spatial, is where narrative resides." \u8220\'93}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 a game, as it is played, is a collaboration between the developers and the players, a journey of mutual discovery, a democratic artform in which the shape of the game is created by the artist, but the experience of the game is created by the player.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 - Costikyan - }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 It's a dispenser of stories, customized to the individual who is playing at the moment.\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Will Wright - }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 overall the narrative is unique to each player and to each play\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 (Forcier). }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 "game designers create the rigid structures of rules from which play will emerge". "Traditional media are representational, not simulational."}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3  - not entirely true, but mostly true. So, dealing with procedural simulations in which we have influence and can tell stories rather than merely be given them. - }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 "video games are just a particular way of structuring simulation, just like narrative is a form of structuring representation." Has rules - "The key trait of simulational media is that it relies on rules: rules that can be manipulated, accepted, rejected, and even contested.\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8221\'94 - }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 "symbolic representation" Wexler - Modelling (Klugl and Bazzan) (rules) and simulation ("executing a model")}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\sa160\sb160\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 How is that narrative created, then? Interactivity - difficult term - through interface - all art is interactive, as the last chapter showed. Also not all interactive, but that interaction is important for the types of computational art that I am interested in. Different for use - usually (but not always, though I am interested mainly in those that are) involves the input and }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93explicit interaction\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3  (S+Z), interacting with story (Klug) or }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93direct interaction\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 (Mullaney), }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93purposeful interaction\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3  (Costikyan)}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3  of a \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91player\u8217\'92 or \u8216\'91user\u8217\'92 - }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93to explore, to make determinations, to take decisive actions, and to follow our choices to their conclusions\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 . It is \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91operated\u8217\'92 (Bogost), not just experienced vicariously or spectated. }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Player control\u8221\'94, \u8220\'93actions are meaningful\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 (Makai), }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93interactive decisions\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3  (Koster). }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 much of their structure is invisible to the user\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 (Costikyan) - a snapshot on the system - their traversal of it constitutes their narrative - manual, instead of merely ideological or imaginary, interpretation. Have material agency - }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93the satisfying power to take meaningful action and see the results of our decisions and choices\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 , }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 a level of }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93personal, physical involvement that is not possible in more traditional works of fiction.\u8221\'94 - \u8220\'93}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 in a world that may be fictional, but that my exercise of will can shape and alter, as though an I, somehow apart from me but feeding perceptions back to me, acts in that world.\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3  (Tavinor). }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 "new media move us from identification to action"}{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3  }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 (Manovich). Provides feedback loops, }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93participatory\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3  (Murray). This is what we mean by the \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93ergodic\u8221\'94 in games, even if it isn\u8217\'92t all like that (Newman) - \u8220\'93marriage contract\u8221\'94 between user and system (Wegner). Not all computational art needs to be interactive, but very important for most forms - }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 "The evolution of computer technology from the 1970s to the 1990s is expressed by a paradigm shift from algorithms to interaction" }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 (Wegner) or rather a combination of the two. }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 "free movement within a more rigid structure"}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3  - I'll stick with that, what we often mean by \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91play\u8217\'92, but \u8216\'91play\u8217\'92, again, has difficult affordances - }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93The simulated reality in the representation becomes procedural, and thus unpredictable, more closely imitating real life. And this procedurality makes it possible to add the most sought-after component of all: the spectator himself as an active element in the work of art.\u8221\'94  - }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Weiner (1948) - cybernetics, feedback loops, systems (similar to how we interpret books but two-sided) - creating arbitrary rules within systems - not eating meat in minecraft (5/10) as well as performing the designed interactions - interpreting those in different ways - "encouraged affective states" (Keogh) - "We have historically intellectualised videogames as hard configurative systems while downplaying the fact that the reason we really play a videogame is because it feels real good within our soft meaty body. Videogames are a carnal pleasure." \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93The field of human-computer interaction largely grew due to this change in interactive pace\u8221\'94 - from batch processing to richer interaction. \u8220\'93Communication between user and system\u8221\'94 (HCI book) - acting on feedback - \u8220\'93interactive cycle\u8221\'94. A system containing an interface. In recent years increased the \u8220\'93bandwidth of communication\u8221\'94 - \u8220\'93goal-seeking behaviour\u8221\'94 \u8220\'93in a world of partial knowledge\u8221\'94 - \u8220\'93epistemological interaction\u8221\'94 (Tavinor, Costikyan) - videogames because \u8220\'93the visual channel is used as the predominant channel for communication\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch \ls3\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Relies on the capabilities of the modern, digital computer, (Frasco) - }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 "it is extremely difficult to model complex systems through cogwheels."}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 ) part of the }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93new media revolution\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3  (Manovich) (Bogost - }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93cheaper, faster,}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3  }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 more capacious, and more connected\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8221\'94)}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3  in all its multivariant forms - to compute, to calculate, operate using algorithms and other data manipulation, to manipulate (Weiz - }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93symbol manipulator\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 ) to store data (}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8221\'94encyclopedic\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3  Murray), to represent everything as numbers which can be manipulated), algorithms, to represent, to sense, }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93network remote locations, manipulate large amounts of information, automate complex processes, and provide very immediate feedback\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3  (Zimmerman). Interacting with information/data through \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93a new cultural metalanguage, the interface\u8221\'94 - not sure it is new, but certainly particular.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\sa160\sb160\ltrch\loch \ls4\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Not necessarily a \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93unique\u8221\'94 potential, as we like to posit (I must be able to find hundreds of references for this assertion - "Traditional storytelling normally deals with endings in a binary way." - completely disagree). \u8220\'93}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 videogames so often insist separate them from the stodgy changelessness of novels, films, even the plastic arts.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (Bogost) - }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Remember, other kinds of art use computation, use interactivity, use \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93scripting\u8221\'94 all these things that we are concerned with - }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93While \~every \~poem \~or \~every \~song \~is \~certainly \~a \~system, games \~are \~dynamic \~systems \~in \~a \~much \~more \~literal sense.\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3  (Zimmerman) but using modern computer technology allows us to use them at a scale and complexity and a relevance to a wide audience which is certainly unprecedented and which changes the experience (NWF - new media does things that previous media did, but quicker, in parallel, and }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93at time of audience experience\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3  - }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93A focus on a new type of storytelling\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 (Leibowitz and Klug, 2012) . Not all attempt to reach this potential, but I would argue that all are interested in it to some degree - and really we are interested in those that pursue this potential. }
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sa160\sb160\ltrch\loch \ls4\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Also cannot be called the \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91best\u8217\'92 or an \u8216\'91advance\u8217\'92 on any other form (again, as many people tend to talk about it) - but they are different, with their }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93own narrative language"}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3  }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 (Ryan), }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 and of course their specific methods, techniques and technologies, many of which I have used in my own work. Old ideas combined with new technologies - NWF - }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 "a blossoming of new models of character, story and language". - }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 and requiring new ways of thinking about the act of authoring, of making art - and of making characters.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3  }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 "we want new media narratives, and we want these narratives to be different from the narratives we have seen or read before.\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Tavinor talks about the number of emotions you can feel increasing (guilt, remorse, pride, ashamed, jealous }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 (Brock, 2007}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 ). }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 "perhaps there are ways that only games can signify"}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3  (Zimmerman) - LeBlancs }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93taxonomy of game pleasures\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 (Costikyan) - }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93fellowship\u8221\'94 -}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Goal-oriented/participatory affects are unique to games - in films, it is "affective mimicry and simulation of the characters". Rogers, Carpentier and Barnard - interactive media enjoyment comes from degree of control/interactivity/agency.}
\par\pard\plain \sa160\sb160\ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0\cb3\highlight3
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0\cb3\highlight3 What Does This Mean For Character And Its Potential Resonance?}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\sa160\sb160\ltrch\loch \ls5\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 For those videogames that are interested in narrative (remember Currie and others from first chapter) characters are very important to such examples of computational art. Their deeds constitute a narrative - and when we are looking at procedural, interactive art, those deeds are controlled and plotted in real-time by the computational and materially interactive power of the computer - meaning that characters, their deeds and the audience\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s interactions with them are central to narrative computational art. \u8220\'93Centrality of the AI character to gameplay\u8221\'94, and Ermi and Mayra (2003) and Mallon (2007). }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 It is, technically, what Klugl and Bazzan call "agent-based modelling" - "decision makers" - certain bots - "computer program designed to operate autonomously, performing scheduled, responsive, or real-time operations in a computer, through the Internet, and/or on social media networks. What distinguishes bots from other kinds of software is that they interact with and/or produce content for humans, often assuming a human persona."}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sa160\sb160\ltrch\loch \ls6\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Caveats - Will be mainly looking at videogame characters as examples of computational artistic characters, but my methodology also takes into account other examples and disciplines which share many of these methodological challenges (see my bibliography). I do not mean to just privilege videogames characters, but it is my research background and focus, and while I may not call Project knole a \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93game\u8221\'94, this does not mean that it does not share most of its attributes with videogames - it just means that the term \u8220\'93game\u8221\'94 is a troublesome one, no matter what it is attached to. }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Also focussing on NPCs - characters in the gameworld, }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93intelligent agents\u8221\'94, \u8220\'93autonomous agents\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3  }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93embodied conversational agents\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3  . Project knole is not about the player controlling a character - it is about them directly interacting with the masterbeast - what we would call a non-player character. Of course, will see that this is a difficult distinction in my method - talk about the player perhaps choosing to identify with the character that Anne describes at the beginning of the }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 Housekeeping}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 , but do not have to - not prescriptive, the role is very bare, can decide for themselves (pathos) whether or not the creature has been left since the 18th century, and the actions of other players confuses it too - are they people who have received the pamphlet as well, due to the printer\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s deceit? - though also not interested in characters and other people, as in multiplayer (}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf4\cb3\highlight3 cite?}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 ) or \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91bots\u8217\'92 (Believable bots, other bot papers) - but the focus are on the \u8220\'93other\u8221\'94 characters. Of course, lots of game character scholarship is about the PC (Lankoski 2011, Lange, Theatre & Games chap, Tanenbaum & Bizzochi) - }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Player-character bond is often seen as one of the most important aspects of game storytelling.\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 This is an issue which is not vital to my work, and introduces concepts which are distinct from an audience\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s experience, interaction, judgement and evaluation of NPCs - such as \u8220\'93vehicular embodiment\u8221\'94 (Newman) - though many of the concepts talked about below have been written about in terms of NPCs, and are the ones which I have deemed to be applicable to NPCs as well - we still \u8216\'91control\u8217\'92 NPCs through our interactions, though it may be indirect. (}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf4\cb3\highlight3 cite?}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 ). }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 "conceptually problematic"}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3  to focus on the PC. Tension between personality and control.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 So, }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 what is the potential of computational character?}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3  In general, same as any other character - to be \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91resonant\u8217\'92. As said before, in general this means positive judgement, within the percepts of the medium, by an audience, and achieved by a combination (and in between) the representation itself and the imaginative extrapolation of the audience. This is no different for a game character, though the nature of that combination, and the representation, and what it does to the imagination, is different (or \u8220\'93particular\u8221\'94, remember) from other types of narrative artforms. Wexler points out games like Pong saw the actual rise of procedural and computational character, rather than merely represented computationally, like a digital photograph.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Computational characters have the potential to achieve their resonance through being computational. Not to be static artefacts, but to be part of a real-time computation, to change and adapt according to the rules of the system and the inputs of the player and other factors - to not have their stories told, but for their actions to depend on many factors decided at run-time. To have \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91agency\u8217\'92, and to be \u8216\'91agents\u8217\'92, \u8220\'93autonomous\u8221\'94 - just like the player, to }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93support the interactive experience of playing the game\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Of course, many game characters are not, explicitly, computational or procedural in any major way, even if part of something computed - (}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf4\cb3\highlight3 examples}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 ) - use the static techniques of other media, or restrict their computability (because of challenges, as seen in next section) - there is nothing wrong with this, nor do I see a truly \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93computational\u8221\'94 character as intrinsically better - but this potential is one that is intrinsic to the media and techniques used, and has a }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 promise}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3  of a fundamentally different experience of fictional beings.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sa160\sb160\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 What is unique promise? }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Engaging narratives with life-like characters\u8221\'94 \u8220\'93INTERESTING PEOPLE\u8230\'85 IN INTERESTING PLACES\u8230\'85 DOING INTERESTING THINGS\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 , }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93improved realism\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3  (Harris & Gittens 2015) }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 a \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93hypothetical future [in which] players could interact with computerized characters as round as those in novels or films, making choices that would influence an ever-evolving plot."}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3  (Bogost) - return to his cynicism later.}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3  }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93more specific and interesting personalities", form \u8220\'93significant relationships\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 (Ueda)}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3  }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 (significant in \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91magic circle\u8217\'92, or outside it) and thus provide the agency for \u8220\'93strong narrative interactive experiences\u8221\'94 (Elizabeth talk). The interactivity of character (Sanocki), to intervene (Life Is Strange lady). }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 "creating relationships between the players and the characters in the game", "compelling, memorable characters". }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Players of modern video games increasingly expect Artificial Intelligence that is dynamic, is able to react to unexpected events, and behaves believably" \u8220\'93dynamic and unpredictable\u8221\'94.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\sa160\sb160\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Measures of this promise: }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 believability. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Loyall provided best definition. Togelius talks about it as well.}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3  \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Life-like in appearance and behaviour, with a clearly defined personality and distinct emotional state, is driven by internal goals and beliefs, consistent in its behaviour, is capable of interacting with its environment and other participants, is aware of its surroundings and capable of changing its behaviour over time.\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Not necessarily }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93realistic\u8221\'94 (Mateas) but \u8220\'93socially situated, and able to reason in social terms\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 (Bailey) - - "convincingness and trustworthiness" - fogg and tseng, bartneck in Weiss and Tscheliegi - Reidl & Stern 2006 - more like real people, }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93more humanlike\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3  (Johansson and Verhagen) in that they are materially simulated, mimetic, less diegetic. \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94illusion of life\u8221\'94 (look at all the other models as well) To have }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93self-awareness, intentional states and self-impelled actions, to express emotions, the ability to use natural language and persistent traits\u8221\'94, }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 reactivity, interactivity, - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93manifest believable behaviour\u8221\'94 - "plausible, malleable and loveable" - Evans - \u8220\'93}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Autonomy\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3  not very different from most characters, but now has to be part of a system - all possible states that that character must be in - less control, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91second-order design\u8217\'92 and now is responsive to unpredictable or systemic input, which must be wide to be realistic. "Reciprocity" - Gouldner (in W&T) saying that this is "a pattern of social exchange" - not parasocial anymore. A move from parasocial to social relationships. Believability creates \u8220\'93engagement\u8221\'94 }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93emotion, personality, self-motivation\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3  (Lankovski)., also providing a }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93possibility for a deeper interaction between players and NPC\u8221\'94, \u8220\'93co-presence\u8221\'94 (Bevalacqua) }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Bevacqua et al - "coupling" in virtual agents - the continuous mutual affect between two individuals - believability, co-presence ("being-with") and engagement - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Interactivity also helps them form, a close bond wit hthe characters much more easily than in print or film\u8221\'94 - is this borne out by research?}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3  }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Is it a unique potential, or just the same goals but particular to this media? }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 As Bogdanovych points out, belivability comes from non-interactive animation. So interactivity is important, but really it is computation - the real-time procedure of demonstrating a character, more like a real person - that is important.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sa160\sb160\ltrch\loch \ls6\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3  Approaches - will discuss some, but AI \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93holds the most promise of change\u8221\'94 (Castronova), but is a holistic part of game design, as characters are tied to game system in many ways. Lankski and Bjork (2007) - "character design related to gameplay" - also mechanics in general, (nucle.ai\u8217\'92s point that AI is everything in game, dispersed model), \u8220\'93game feel\u8221\'94 (swink) - sound design, visual design, a holistic process. }
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sa160\sb160\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 End with an example of a \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91good\u8217\'92 game character. Elizabeth? Came highest in \u8220\'93embodied conversational agent\u8221\'94. This is what I want for my character - to be dynamic, computational, and for that to lead to resonance - an artistic quality inherent, and not in spite of or in the absence of, the affordances of the medium that I choose to work in. To explore the potential of the medium, not to shrink from it. Characters in games are inextricable from the wider potential of games. }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93We\u8217\'92re just scratching the surface of what games are and what they can be\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3  (Alderman). Moving on from Murray\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s \u8220\'93incunabular days\u8221\'94. }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Beyond\u8230\'85 compelling entertainment to attain the force and originality that we associate with art?\u8221\'94 - }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93we do not yet fully know what computational can do and do not yet fully understand the expressive capacities of [computational art]\u8221\'94Bartle - "If virtual worlds could be populated by intelligent NPCs, all manner of doors would open". }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Do all characters need to be this \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91believable\u8217\'92? What about \u8216\'91bit\u8217\'92 characters? Well, to a lesser extent, but we aren\u8217\'92t really focussing on \u8216\'91bit\u8217\'92 characters. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Point out that not all characters are trying to be believbale - I am focussing on those that are, or which need to be.}}