{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 ArialMT;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial-BoldMT;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial-ItalicMT;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Georgia-Italic;}{\f4\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Georgia;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red225\green255\blue73;\red51\green51\blue51;\red15\green117\blue3;\red68\green68\blue68;\red251\green4\blue7;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\listtable
{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid5}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3 Despite this potential, and these apparent paragons of \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93resonant\u8221\'94 characterisation in computational arts, there are MANY PROBLEMS with these approaches, and distinct and \u8216\'91particular\u8217\'92 CHALLENGES to creating such characters. The challenge itself? }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93G}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf4\cb3\highlight3 enerating a character through simple algorithms and then trying to make it rounded and real enough to generate emotions is one of the big challenges in modern computing\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8221\'94,}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3  }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 a \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93hypothetical future [in which] players could interact with computerized characters as round as those in novels or films, making choices that would influence an ever-evolving plot."}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3  (Bogost). }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Interactive storytelling}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3  \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93largely failed to deliver on its promises over its forty-year history.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Naomi Alderman - }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf4\cb3\highlight3 I can\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92t begin to tell you how hard it is to write good characters in games\u8221\'94.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf4\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf4\cb3\highlight3 Have we really moved beyond the \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91juvenilia\u8217\'92 stage, the \u8216\'91incunabular days\u8217\'92 of Murray\u8217\'92s prediction? In terms of representing beings in a way that fulfils the potential of the medium, no. }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf4\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf4\cb3\highlight3 This is just an overview of the problems, }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf5\cb3\highlight3 many of which are implicit in Project knole\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s narrative}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf4\cb3\highlight3 .}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf4\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf4\cb3\highlight3 Things are better, but we are still at a point where we can seriously have to ask for a \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93believable character as opposed to a believable gun\u8221\'94 at a major AI conference (2013)}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3  "haven't progressed that much"}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Samyn (Almost Art) - "t in terms of cultural relevance, social importance and aesthetic impact, videogames still play second fiddle to cinema, literature or music, because underneath their superficial artistic appearance, videogames are bland, unforgiving, meaningless, cold-blooded, rigid systems."}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Frank Lantz in RoP - despite the breathtaking pace of recent technical and commercial advancement, games have remained creatively stunted.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93In the mainstream space I really haven\u8217\'92t seen a whole lot of progress.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 In computational art, particularly in the form of videogames, there are many characters that do not fulfil the quality of 'resonance'. Indeed, it seems that there is something inherent to the artform that makes achieving 'resonance' especially difficult, particularly in balancing artistic nuance with the design demands of the dynamic system, and characters as elements within that system. How the potentials introduced in previous section are part of the challenges.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 "Video games don\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t have a great record with relationships"}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ri0\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 }
\par\pard\plain \tx960\tx1440\li720\fi-720\ri-998\ql\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf4\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf4\cb3\highlight3 This is just an overview of the problems, }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf5\cb3\highlight3 many of which are implicit in Project knole\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s narrative}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf4\cb3\highlight3 .}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cb3\highlight3 How The Potentials Create The Challenges}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cb3\highlight3
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-360\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3 A Mechanical System Can Produce Systematised, Mechanical Characters - }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 The problem of representing people as discrete information, and then asking people to reconstitute them through play and interpretation. Digitising the analogue. This is where the ludology/narratology debate breaks down. This is why a \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91believable gun\u8217\'92 is easier.}{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3  }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Very \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91nodal\u8217\'92, just elements of a system. Game designers often say to avoid subtlety (Halo). NPCS \u8220\'93spawn to act as props\u8221\'94. "they train their players to ignore the fiction that wraps the patterns". }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Critiques bioshock for being heavy-handed and systematic. "extremes of human behaviour"}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 " the game\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s supposed moral calculus"}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 "Games lend themselves well to ambiguity" - well, you wouldn't think it, looking at modern game design.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 "difficult task of combining variability with narrativity" }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Points out that the mini-game is very systematic and mechanical - can be chunked.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Reputation systems - very rough-grained. "don't typically maintain individual opinions"}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Warns against designers creating closed puzzles, discrete systems that are neat engineering feats, but allow no room for the human mind for the computation and solution}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-360\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 With Fable and Black & White, the whole point was to separate the "moral" aspects from the reward structure, so that the primary game mechanics never drive you towards good or evil. It used purely emotional cues (e.g. a sad face and a whimper on your 60-foot pet tiger) to engage players on "moral" decisions - hence, empathy}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-360\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 "something left untouched" when you don't mix story and game.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Even in ostensibly story-driven games, characters become clothing dolls, sex objects, marriageable.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3  Tavinor points to "fracture" between story/context and action in game (killing in uncharted). }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 considered Elizabeth as mute.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3  A character may have this combination well, but the primary activity of the game is so detached from them that they don't pay attention to them. }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 mismatch between core of game (the ludemes) and the dressing can result i nserious problems for user experience - ludonarrative dissonance.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 No words must design (p10) - all games \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93has some degree of puzzle solving\u8221\'94 - well, autocosmics is puzzle-solving in all its forms. \u8220\'93You can\u8217\'92t extract puzzle from game entirely\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3  Companions still named one of he worst things about videogame (Guardian). }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Quests one of these problems as well. when characters previously individualised (in cutscenes, dialogue) become slave to the mechanics of the game world and come up wanting. The mechanics take over, the character is just a cipher. YOu don\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t care about them or feel sympathy - unhelpful. Control has been taken away from us. Vocalisations are annoying. AI does not behave in a realistic, varied and coherent behaviour"}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Halo talking about players not understanding behaviour - often because behaviour/expectation was v. mechanical.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Use of the word "bark" by a lot of developers is telling - just animals.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Weizenbaums \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93mechanical parody\u8221\'94 widespread in computer science and programming.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 if story is not strong, or not integrated with action, or the action is not strong, you have a dissonance.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 If the character does not react emotionally to events, if they don?t care? then neither will we. The emotionless character is lifeless? as a machine?\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Dissonance of character.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 "scoring" is instrumentalisation and mechanicalisation. Not necessarily a problem, however. Scores don't have to be so mechanical (Clark)}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 tears flowing down cheeks, and facial animations, "is no guarantee that the story was meaninful to its viewers" - not just representational, the meaning MUST come from the simulation as well.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 games are "readily absorbed", which is part of their problem.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-360\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Harrison\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s \u8216\'91reduction to utility\u8217\'92.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 A+C - Story "divorced from the system" is a "luittle troublesome"}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 The \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93formality gap\u8221\'94 - between the real-world-as-system and a formal constructed system}
\par\pard\plain \tx960\tx1440\li720\fi-720\ri-998\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 videogames are bland, unforgiving, meaningless, cold-blooded, rigid systems."}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-360\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Dan Klein - what is important is the \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93utility\u8221\'94 of AI - what they do, not how they think.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-360\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3  By interfacing with a new media, "three-dimensional space becomes surface... a character becomes an icon... what at one moment was a ficitonal universe becomes a set of buttons that demand action" }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 The primary activity of a book is "watching people do things}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Searle - programs are syntactic, not semantic - the nature of the information does not matter.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Romance subplots - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93vending machines [from which] sex falls out\u8221\'94 (Hernandez), don\u8217\'92t preserve \u8220\'93weird and complicated\u8221\'94 nature of human beings. Often seen as essentialised for gameplay, which means that they are mechanical and never as good as in other artforms. Lanskovski and Bjork state that with mechanical NPCs we take Dennett\u8217\'92s physical stance, rather than his intentional stance - we see them as tools.\u8216\'91creature loses a lot of his charm the more you train him because he is focused (becomes useful, but robotic)\u8217\'92 - Amanda Yaklin AI becomes predictable once it is \u8216\'91trained\u8217\'92. }
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 gaming and narrative "in tension"}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 "grokking", and relating to "flow". don't just rely on mechanical autocosmics, but instead }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Little sister - both care about them in fiction and guides actions against them - lots of articles debunking this.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 About not stressing 1cognit1ive loa1d - if we are foc1ussed on avoid1ing1g ene1mies, we cannot care a1bout the 1af1fects o1f a1 chara1cter.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 goal-related engagement and empathic engagement - for him they are important to PCs - but for NPCs, does it lead to nodalisatiion? former is "I" and latter is "you"}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3  "Task attractiveness" (Coulson et. al 2012) - if they help you get to the end of the game. Only one aspect of creating a character.}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 He says ghames shoudl not be limited by being an inherently mathematical medium - compares to music.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Makes a distinction between "disliking" and "tooling" characters. If still seen as social other, rather than being based on how "useful" they are.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94visual intelligence\u8221\'94 - if they don\u8217\'92t see it, it doesn\u8217\'92t happen. Make it big and clunky animations in most games Need to be able to tell what they are thinking and why they do things.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 cliche characters help you work out who they are - helping you chunk them! Their role in the world. Depends how tied to mechanics they are.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93So used to not caring\u8221\'94 about the characters.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 identify "anti-heuristics" for believability - lack of adaptation, lack of awareness/over-awareness, low or bad models of others, low or bad model of self. }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93general AI routines in the game engine\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 hostility/friendliness - "I" oriented, rather than identification/empathy only, as in books. More useful = less liked, which is interesting - not a tool}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 "Standardisation of a deeper level" - characters become templates of technique. }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Evans states that agents provoke simple, more polar reactions. Maybe this is the problem. Maybe we need to move away from agents as components in a system. }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93toolchain\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 "one file among numerous others on our hard drives" \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93merely abstract symb ols of action?\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Lots of games about combat (good system to replicate) and characters are very small in characterisation. \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Barks\u8221\'94 or \u8220\'93combat dialogue\u8221\'94 used for \u8220\'93flavor only\u8221\'94.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3 "convincing psychological agency" - we don't have it, game in its systems needs to make us feel like we are interacting with real people, or realish people. }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Oblivion characters - limited interactions with them, no consistency/change in modelling or the characters over time (scars are often the conflict-based cliche of this idea)}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Because the effort involved in content creation is so great, the content creation process also needs to be standardised\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 What is abstracted, and what is detailed? Often \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91simpler\u8217\'92 things, like guns, are made detailed (receiver game) rather than the more complex things, or those things for which we do not have paradigms.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Just focussing on \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91believable behaviours\u8217\'92 - but still within the paradigm of system, not paradigm of the character itself. What about the inner life? If somebody comes up against that, it shatters. Work on Claudette - Just acts - acting at eating and drinking, no goals or intent. Even with goal, how deep do you go?}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Autocosmics is a specturm - for him, psychological engagement and information access compete.. "between action and representation". Games have both. How can we make them compete less? How does this relate to character?}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Serve system or character? "It is dramatically depicted ambivalence rather than efficient goal selection that makes a sequence of events into a story."}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Bogost - Bioshock }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93posed as a serious, hard science fiction take-down of the doomed hubris of technophilic selfishness, but in truth the game was just a spruced-up first-person shooter\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 a major barrier to the exploration of emotional resonance in games is the puzzle-solving orientation, in which all game objects and actors are reduced to the status of things to be used in order to achieve an end.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3  }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 "characters in computer games have expertise in some well-defined but narrow area" }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Artificial intelligence has done well in tightly constrained domains.\u8221\'94 They have to be, we aren\u8217\'92t trying to build people, but need to fit into world betyt}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3 "the humanlike figure you see on your computer screen is really a game token"}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 "canned speech", "predictable", }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 explicitly tie bad NPC design to lack of immersion/break in believability/autocosmics.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 "they offer a schematized and purposely reductive vision of the world"}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Newman - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93They are equipment to be utilised in the gameworld by the player\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 "must have dignity" - for Gard, this means not objectifying the character.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Game Designer summit - must respect the characters to get people to treat them properly - this can conflict with gamelay.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 "treat them more as appliances than as people"}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 In games - even \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93individual\u8221\'94 AIs must be part of a system (and, unlike grammar/language, that system must run on a very limited machine)}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Siboot - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93near-constant motion\u8221\'94 of face - but most of face doesn\u8217\'92t move still ritualistic symbol manipulation, not naturalistic at all.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 James Andrews and Loren Schmidt }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 Realistic Kissing Simulator }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 (2014) lampoons the mechanistic, twitch, manual approach to human contact that it sometimes seems that games are capable of making. Can lick the other person\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s eye - they close it in response - or their nose - the ridiculousness of this simulation.}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf6\cb3\highlight3 Using archetypes- works well with systemics.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf6\cb3\highlight3 Making characters believable - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93acts in unrealistic way\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf6\cb3\highlight3 P90 - talks about ludonarrative dissonance. Can happen with PCs or NPCs.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf6\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Need to speak and act in realistic and believable ways in order for the player to form a close bond with them\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93We tend to associate lack of variation with machines\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3 Dragon Age confining NPCs to one place and looping animations. - Ambient Ai paper.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 How Much Needs To Be Simulated, Or Is Strived To Be Simulated }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Problems of where to draw the depth of simulation. Cannot go deep like a novel - "necessary level of detail\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93We are highly sensitive to variations and intonation in speech, and are therefore intolerant of imperfections in synthesized speech\u8221\'94 - \u8220\'93non-prosodic tones\u8221\'94 - this is changing, however!}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 "rules-governed worlds" - all fictional worlds are rules-governed - the difference is how and when they break!}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3  }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 "how difficult it is to get an AI to walk through a door properly" (Bioshock talk).}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3  "maintain that illusion of life" is much harder. It's hard enoguh to make a character just look like a person, let alone the emotional content. }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 "bad animation, bad contextual reactions, bad pathfinding." }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Smoothness is what is missing in games - the transition between elements being so complex, they judder into one another. }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 The reasonwhy we make this choice is because characters have oftena major role in the believability of book and movie stories. However, unlike book and movie characters, agents should be able to cope with a wide range of possible situations without anyone to tell them what to do.}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93A simple \u8220\'93normal\u8221\'94 reaction to an event, a reaction that every human would understand, can be difficult for a computer to achieve. The challenge lies in replicating these very crucial behaviors that are such a big part of human behavior that they cannot be omitted or the believability is lost.\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Waypoint (vice) talks about why character is so difficult - what must be built - the representation is so hard - The reason we cannot do characters in AI is because AI finds ordinary human things very difficult to do - and ordinary relatable behaviour is what we crave in characters - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93the literary\u8221\'94.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 There is no silver bullet for specifying complex systems is a consequence of the irreducibility of interactive systems to algorithms."}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 If you want unique, complex circumstances to arise, it\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s hard to create something more consistently unpredictable than what happens when you throw two or more people together.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 Reference the issues with memory and performance comapred with other media.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 SO many little things that are not thought of i.e. "active feedback"}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 The \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91emergent\u8217\'92 creates many different problems.}{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3 Makes point that even bad films have human beings acting, and which we respond to instinctively. Ken }
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 "simply frozen in time, repeating the same actions"}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 the social interactions "are not meaningful"}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3 A Complex System In Constant Motion Can Produce Glitches & Problems Of Believability - }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 in other words, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93looking broken\u8221\'94. Claudette - Emotions not fired in the right context (no facial animations is a problem, then). Doesn't react appropriately to asking topics again and again. Not aware of context at all. No new goals if goals are met - just ticking them off. Players tryng to divine her character from the rules (i.e. around stolen goods) but not consistent enough.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93The intelligent behavior these characters show to the player is often flawed\u8230\'85 little or no emotional impact.\u8221\'94 }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Changes alignment suddenly. Initially, players put these things down to bugs or quirks\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 (Tence And Buche).}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 "rudimentary actions with characters"}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Ask Gavin about how much actual mechanical difference there is? Replayablity ends up exposing it. People want to find the whole system, understand its breadth}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sa160\sb160\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Therefore often aim for \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93predictability\u8221\'94 - }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Aiming for "predictability" rather than intelligence. Not how chars are - the narrative is the end result of their (imagined) free movement within a system. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Makes the interesting point that we must build purposefully-}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 flawed }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 artificial intelligences to create believable autonomous characters.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93we often encounter the troublesome case of characters in one area of the game world appearing cognizant of the player\u8217\'92s behavior in another area before word of it could have ever spread to them.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Action selection is a hard problem (bryson).}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Problems with the Sims - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93 They were simulations of people, but there was a lot missing.\u8221\'94 - doing weird things because the system could not handle the human social realm in simulation.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 If \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93reception contract\u8221\'94 is broken, we experience \u8220\'93narrative resistance\u8221\'94. A lack of consistency, of coherence truth - operating between the game and the world.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3 The Way The Audience Interacts With The Artwork - }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Chunking and grokking. "mastering a game requires understanding it as a system; reducing all components in the game so they can be understood by taking the physical stance towards them, or habit-forming." Uncertainty, seen as a problem, so avoided. \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93instrumental agency\u8221\'94 of player (Laurel), to \u8220\'93get under the hood\u8221\'94 - chunking the gamespace (related to predictability).}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Empowering the user can lead to aesthetically unsatisfying outcomes, but restricting her through constraints from the plot can limit engagement.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Players trying to find optimal path - cheating, riding rough-shod over the world. Koster compares it to the Gordian Knot}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93The conflict between aesthetics and utility.\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 . Players' sensitivity to the repetition of environments and of game scenarios/events/characters is also a sign of their desire for a game world that feels real and alive. (Forcier) }
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Personalities are often "replicated"}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ri0\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 "NPCs (Non Player Characters) in the game}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 are not that complex or smart. They will start acting}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 in a predictable way and you will find yourself}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 anticipating much of their behaviour even before}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 they act."}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 J (study) - }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93They clearly want me to achieve something\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ri0\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 with a PC and goal status evaluations regulate the goal-related engagement.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 goal-oriented or emppaathic}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ri0\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 How did my testees interact with characters.}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Points out experience of player makes things more difficult for believability - systematising.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 is suspension of disbelief/immersion in direct competition with this systematising tendency.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Ppl have chunked this simplicity - they are not expecting to have a socially-good experience and it becomes not a social simulator but a way of negotiating state machines.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 S+Z say all games have intrinsic friction between proscriptive rules and free play. }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Computers combine immersive illusion and \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93virtual instrument panel\u8221\'94 - what does this do to characters? Info vs. Immersion.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Assumed centrality of player (Game Narrative Book) - don\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t let them get bored, or think they aren\u8217\'92t important. This makes all characters subservient to the player\u8217\'92s current wonts. This is not the only interpretation of agency - a move away from this now, to \u8216\'91living worlds\u8217\'92 of which the player is a part, rather than \u8216\'91control panel worlds\u8217\'92. "As we learn more patterns, more novelty is needed to make a game attractive... in that sense, games are disposable, and boredom is inevitable". }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Without believable behaviours, players perceive machine patterns, not good patterns - the "proverbial clockwork" - "learns [the game's] hideen logic. p. 223 - reducing to algorithms and data structures."}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Dealing with Ameixa et al - "out-of-domain input"}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93these players are angry because they feel they\u8217\'92ve been offered freedom but have found their options constrained by a worldview unlike their own.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Patrick Wilson (week 2) - when we understand how something works, the intelligence vanishes.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Part of the fun is trying to catch AI out. Maybe the \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91lusory attitude\u8217\'92 is the problem.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Again, all this relates to the problem of the word \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91game\u8217\'92 - can a \u8216\'91game\u8217\'92 ever expand how it deals with character resonantly?}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 The market - }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf6\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Gamer culture is a cultivated, enthusiast, techno-determinist culture.\u8221\'94 (Keogh) - being utopian, demanding games be everything.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Considerable debate as to whether giving the player more control leads to better and more enjoyable stories\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 We are subconsciously tuned to how things are supposed to work at a cognitive level}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 ence and Buche, # of interactions need to be high for believability but high risk of repetition}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3 A Lack Of Diversity In Approach Due To Paradigms - }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Even when characters are \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93resonant\u8221\'94 within their genres, the genres that we have are not very character-focussed, and there is little appetite for expansion apart from on the fringes. Characterisation revealed through actions is done a lot. The problem with games, then, is that they don't sit still to make character long enough to make character the centre of the action.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 the things they "most often simulate" (italics theirs s+z)}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Plots in these sorts of games are often very big, not about one-to-one interaction - therefore, yes subtlety and nuance are a problem, as is good characterisation. Character interaction is not a big part of these games, and investigating them is not in the \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91pace\u8217\'92 of the game. So, are we trying to do too much, situating them in such a big world.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 soft chambers is interested in what verbs we use - the verbs that we don't use (caring/nurturing/growing/giving/embracing/resting) are "devalued activities under capitalism, they are considered feminized actions or are excluded from the category of 'action' entirely"}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Also, a vicious cycle - NPCs worse, so focussed on less/not up close in game stories because the cracks will show. "most of the time they go unnoticed, sitting on the periphery, regurgitating the same three Lines" or just rely on motion theory - too far the other way - "game over state doesn't make sense in a narrative sense" - it can do! "recreate the cinematic in a game" (amy hennig visceral games) - }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf6\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Cinematic evolution of game stories\u8221\'94 (klug)}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 "stunning representational advances\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 "story has become something of an afterthought in the design of many games"}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 "wrap a story" around the game.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Constrained because of the algorithms we have, and the algorithms we have are decided by certain genres.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Use of randomness (Bailey) - use of defaults - doesn\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t work (stochastics)}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Focus on certain things in games - graphics (Millington and Funge), compulsive mechanics, combat AI, environment development replayability (GLFAI 13), over the pursuit of \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91believable NPCs\u8217\'92 (Millington and Funge point this out). Just look at differences between }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 Oblivion }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 and }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 Skyrim}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 . \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93The difference between the realistic graphics and the rather flawed AI is often all too evident to players of computer games\u8221\'94. Cerny et al - " unprecedented level of graphical fidelity to the real world" More work on this in the academic AI sector (examples in Zotero) but lack of talk between academic AI and game AI - general feeling that games need to \u8216\'91work\u8217\'92 and so rigourous pursuit of such solutions are not cost-effective. Focus on certain representational techniques (realistic faces (Ruttkay and Wilson), procedural facial expressions, procedural body posture, personality modelling, gaze control, emotion simulation, physiology simulation (mostly in academia, though). \u8220\'93replay value" is often a big thing - tied to profits, increase instrumentality of a character. "more realistic gestures and facial expressions" - all part of the problem, but avoiding the \u8216\'91fuzzier\u8217\'92 issues. }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Hancock \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8216\'9116 -}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf4\cb3\highlight3 sophisticated graphic-based representations are often employed as a yardstick for technological superiority, as it is a form of advancement that can be discerned by the naked eye. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 "all I can do is hurt people" (Paste Article)}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Challenge, quantifiable outcome. Games have commonly triggered flight autocosmics, or exploratory autocosmics, rather than social autocosmics.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3 "combat AI is often the largest AI subsystem" divided into combat and non-combat AI. Eveything that isn't fighting is bundled together!}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 All art has conflict, but not all art has competition.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3 Henry Jenkins - "the application of film theory togames can seem heavy-handed and literal-minded"}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Turkle states that movement is not always necessary anymore - how we are confront by psychological objects. \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Motion theory\u8221\'94 is not enough anymore. \u8220\'93Movement is not the key to the puzzle\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Blunt tools - reputation systems, faction systems, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93simple flags\u8221\'94 (Wardrip-Fruin 2009). (ryan and somerville)}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Games are more interested in better AI for the genres we have (game designer talk)}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Focus on graphics - pursuit of \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91realism\u8217\'92 misplaced. "fundamentally incomplete [realism], full of gaps and white spots". Better tech achieves a "stronger reality effect". Just focussing on database. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 "who determines what will be filled and what will remain a gap in the simulated world?"}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Cutscenes as a solution - Unskippable cut scenes "contravenes our basic human rights". "establishing the fictive world" "directly support narrative play on many levels" Cutscenes can function as rewards, but maybe they are used for the wrong things.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 As Mullaney points out, often the culture itself participates in self-neoteny, sticking to unhelpful distribution methods and deliberately avouiding artistic debate by framing themselves as entertainment, detached from the issues of real life (Mullaney, Smuts). }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 this idea of \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91crying at games\u8217\'92, which persists.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3  \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93awkward system of emotional currency that equates tears with sentimental aptitude, but fails to acknowledge\u8230\'85\u8221\'94 - (Year in feels). Emotions in games - }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Cover displays a classic sexist sci-fi action scenario - not necessarily bad, but shows the base-line. "maximise the gamer's entertainment pleasure"}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 "design templates" and "conventions" are a financial necessity.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 It\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s all about keeping people for engaged as long as possible.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 "There simply is no place for art in such a tight schedule."}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Talking about \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Mass Effect 17\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf6\cb3\highlight3 Making the player cry - such a stupid - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93creating a story that can make the majority of its audience cry is a mark of good writing and character design\u8221\'94 - but he does point out that its not needed.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf6\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Fine line between drama and melodrama\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Many genres are still using the simple AI of 1979 because that\u8217\'92s all they need.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 "socially-demanding games" - Afonso & Prada - don\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t exist.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 "tacked on, incidental narratibes"}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Compulsion loops.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf4\cb3\highlight3 \~}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf4\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93The way players communicate is often unsubtle, however.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf4\cb3\highlight3 it favors image-based representation over other representational forms such as tex}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Winograd [SHRDLU], for example, astonished everyone with the expertise of his blocks-world natural language. Extending this kind of ability to larger worlds has not proved straightforward, however\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 immersive fallacy "an overly romantic and antiquated model for how media operate".}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Manovich - today\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s digital designers and artists use only a small set of action grammars\u8230\'85 out of a much larger set of possibilities\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 "What other kinds of conflict can games simulate?" (social conflict, psychological conflict, interpersonal conflict) - "truly tough design challenges" "may take generations to develop". Zunshine (2006) says that fiction is about theory-of-mind, which we are good at. Are games about theory-of-mind, then? Partly, but not really - we rarely have to deal with unpredictable minds other than in basic "intentional stance" ways. "A lot of the same stories are being told right now" (Campo Santo). Call them "opponents" rather than people - telling. (warpefelt and straat).factions and other group behaviours mean that very simple systems can make ecological sense, because factions react in the same way, and provides a higher degree of intentionality.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3 "mutant cinema" of modern games.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3 a reputation for conservatism, for doggedly clinging to the safety blanket of childishness, for being unwilling or unable to confront the ambiguous complexities of all the meanings they generate}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3 Anthropy begins on the idiocy and hand-holding of tutorials these days - "lost trust" in players - "disrespect to the player's intelligence"}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3 Warn about the creative burden of multiple stories, and of making them good. Not making them "vestigial"}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3 the lure of rewards can come to eclipse the pleasure of the processes of play that lead to those rewards}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3 The tyranny of \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8216\'91fun\u8217\'92 - Not just fun -  a huge variety of other kinds of system driven conversations that remain to be explored. - The concept of \u8220\'93flow\u8221\'94. The problem of "dead-end" rewards - keeping people engaged at all costs.}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93winning" and "losing" makes it difficult to characterise. A slave to the system.}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3 Cycles of "reward" and "punishment" - often punishment is just "losing" or getting rid of progress - this is not how person-to-person interaction works. "repetition" - breaks the narrative flow.}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3 Replayability comes from the need to "feel out the countours of [the] system".}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3 Things becoming "rote" or chunked in games. "grinding" grinding takes time, not skill or understanding. }
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 Ai in modern games addresses movement, decision makings, and tactical decision making - these are still important, but limited.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Frasco - "the knowledge and interpretation of simulations requires repetition." - true, but maybe our chars don't stand up to repetition, or maybe this changes our relationship with them fundamentally. It depends on why you are coming to the simulation.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 In other words, the binary logic found in ludus stands out when delivering}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 games set in fairy-tale-like environments, where things are generally black or}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 white. When you move onto other topics such as human relationships,}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 suddenly distinctions are not so clear-cut. Only paidia, with its fuzzier logic}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 and its scope beyond winners and losers, can provide an environment for}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 games to grow in their scope and artistry." }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 "narrative shell" masks a "simple algorithm" - thinking about narrative as a shell like this.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 "database and narrative are natural enemies"}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 "impoverished subset of potential actions"}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ri0\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 "the capacity of the artificial intelligence controlled non-player characters in the games are often large selling points"}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 "Oblivion is the victim of its own ambition: it raises the player\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s expectations of the world and the characters but is unable to satisfy them." (T&B)}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 "The dissonance in Oblivion comes from a failure to define the narrative conventions (or internal expectations) of the world and to adhere to them." (T&B)}
\par\pard\plain \sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 "Build microworlds with human significance"}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Hruska - AI-VERSUS-GRAPHICS TUG-OF-WAR}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ri0\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93the overwhelming majority of that compute capability has been devoted}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 to making games prettier, not smarter\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 combat AI "Often the largest AI subsystem"}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Flow, boredom and frustration and engagement comes into game character 'resonance'.}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Intereing - Oatley talks about the lack of imagination needed in thrillers or theme park rides - you are the same person when you get off at the other end. - \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93mount[ing] a vehicle\u8221\'94 or \u8220\'93package vacation\u8221\'94 - \u8220\'93one can have ana bsorbing time, but such experiences can be meager of agency\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 "guildlike model of apprenticeship" for game designers. No crazy auteurs, tend to do what they have seen work.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Many people in the game industry have a tendency to think that there\u8217\'92s a best way to do everything\u8221\'94 - story as technical problem.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\ri0\sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 "flow" is what we look for in games - "mihaly czikznemihyali" - from feedback, having goals, change over time. These are not inimicable to character. Depends what the verbs are, what feels like failure. What would a "flow" of character look like? Can be difficult without being "flowing" or "fun"}
\par\pard\plain \li720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Soft Chambers as a response to this.}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "scrivlnk://439A4B9E-AEE2-46DB-A01F-3DA8E640DE03"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Compulsion architectures in games}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3  - have become so naturalised that we feel \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91cheated\u8217\'92 if a game does not have replayable \u8216\'91content\u8217\'92, even if that content is crappy!}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ri0\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 consider, for instance, the ways in which caring and communication have typically been rendered in digital games: as predictable, solvable problems}
\par\pard\plain \sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 A system does not lend itself to tradfitional narratives or characters -more nodel, less living. Therefore we make them less dynamic. Either more nodal or less systemic.}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3  The game-master bases NPC output on a highly sophisticated interactive algorithm synthesizing years of social observation and literary convention: the human mind. To even begin to compete, the computer-game author must effectively write this algorithm from scratch; an impossible task, even for the artificial-intelligence experts!}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3
\par\pard\plain \sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93We suspect that the goal-oriented and rules-based nature of games may stand in the way of artistic expressiveness.\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 They are very simple - or just animals.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Frude points out that the intimate machine market has not really grown yet.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Architecture of a computer system leads to a certain sort of character - they tend to be less character-driven}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 An alternative to the graphic-dominated history of videogames is a variantological approach, in which marginalized and past forms of representation are not seen as dead ends and failures, but as variants that offer alternative perspectives.}
\par\pard\plain \sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Using games software, the metaphors used can be quite limiting.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 distribution models, the whol systems.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3  Set up for certain kinds of experience.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Way too ambitrious in the worlds, rather than the characters. Need to start smaller.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Focus on competition, conflict, central mechanics - the issues of the term "game"}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 "often overwritten and designed to limit the amount of dynamism or development the characters are allowed to have"}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cb3\highlight3 Attempts To \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91Solve\u8217\'92 Or Improve Characterisation In Computational Art (Both Good & Bad)}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cb3\highlight3
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cb3\highlight3
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cb3\highlight3
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cb3\highlight3 Typical Solutions - Sticking to "games model", seeing NPCs as NODAL, characterisation separate from play/system,existing techniques (dialogue engines, traditional characterisation), games with justifiably limited charactesrr, ignore problem entirely.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cb3\highlight3
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls3\ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3 Technological Advances}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3  - Improving the medium itself. Toby Gard - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93steady technological progress has slowly opened up possibilities for more believable and realistic characters\u8221\'94. " most videogame fans are sold on the idea that the history of games is a history of technology" Say that graphical updates needed for "illusion of immersion and interaction with surroundings, materials and substances" - not sure this is true!}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sa240\sb240\ql\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 This is going to be an endless race towards better techniques for rendering better characters and allowing them to compute. Most of these advances have been in the field of AI - machine learning (Tence and Buche), neural networks, (}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf7\cb3\highlight3 other recent advances?}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 ), but also affective gaming (Christy and Kuncheva) (2014), graphics representation (p243 Manovich), from abstract in 60s/70s to improved tech now, more representational. AI developers (AI Summit) speak of \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93technological stagnation\u8221\'94 in their field, and the need for better technology. Togelius (and others (Millington and Funge)) speak about the need to unite the findings of academic AI and game AI. \u8220\'93games are so tightly coupled to consumer electronics that technical progress outstrips aestehtic progress in the public imagination.\u8221\'94 Weiz thinks that programmers believe computers can \u8220\'93do anything, problems can be reduced and reduced\u8221\'94 - is character a problem to reduce. Learning - \u8220\'93Extending the reach of the designer into unknown\u8221\'94 (Russell & Norvig) - not against this at all. - }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93often used when creating believable virtual characters in games or in other types of virtual environments\u8221\'94. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Russell & Norvig - }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93the study of agents that receive percepts from the environment and perform actions\u8221\'94. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 3d animation that once would stun an audience with it's realism now barely has any effect, or looks wrong and out of place. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 I need to confront VR as an immersive technology - not sure this is going to help character -Supermassive games guy links it to "narrative transport\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 - "cautiously" optimistic. - Good for emotional storytelling, he says - amy hennig says its good for empathy. Not sure how I feel about that. - I don't think this will fundamentally change our relationship with characters - it isn't where the problem is. - "whole new medium", not a step. Not as interested in affective stuff (in HCI book as well) - relying on computational conversion of emotion, which is still barely understood. Harris and Gittens (2015) - an agent that learns human emotional data from training model is more believable than one made using more \u8220\'93traditional approaches\u8221\'94 -  (N\u8220\'93Refusal to author results in\u8230\'85banality\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Harris and Gittens (2015) - an agent that learns human emotional data from training model is more believable than one made using more \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93traditional approaches\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Frude - Do not need perfect technology to make an "intimate machine"}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Learning is not as widely used as you might think\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 Learning leads to \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93unpredictability\u8221\'94 therefore \u8220\'93severly curb\u8230\'85 the learning ability of game characters\u8221\'94Bryson - ai and moral agents - \u8220\'93exaggerated fears and hopes\u8221\'94 - actually all AI promises us the same as any human artefact. Computers are just a tool. }
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\sa240\sb240\ql\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3  However, what must be pointed out is that advances in the fields of AI come not just from technological improvement, but improvements of understanding of psychology, how natural systems work, and how to emulate natural processes (e.g. BOD). Also, a focus on technology smacks of utopianism and \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93technological fetishism\u8221\'94; the \u8220\'93prevalent idea\u8221\'94 in the industry that more complex = better characters, and that that complexity comes from technology or implementation. (}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf7\cb3\highlight3 egs of games recently that have touted complex AI?}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 ) The focus on \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93general-purpose AI\u8221\'94, or \u8220\'93strong AI\u8221\'94 (that bosses such as Insomniac guy from video think are coming, \u8220\'93respond to everything you say\u8221\'94) and the tweet about the misunderstanding amongst game bosses about the truth of the difficulty of AI. Look back at Herbert Simon\u8217\'92s overzealous predictions in 1957, and the fortunes of the AI industry. The quest for the \u8220\'93synthetic person\u8221\'94 - misunderstands what a character is. It must be partial. However, we have been making the wrong things partial. People expect too much from technology - expect fully fledged people. "it is difficult to create an artificial character that convinces a real person for more than a few minutes" - maybe we need to avoid this. This focus on believability - Really, then, this is resonance - believability is too limited a term. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Tence & Buche see \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91believability\u8217\'92 as \u8216\'91acting like a human\u8217\'92 - not always the case - I am not looking at their definition of \u8216\'91believability\u8217\'92, really. Generally, what we mean by believability is the consistency of the behaviors of the character, i.e. that the decisions the character takes are understood by the viewer. Believability, the way it is defined in this thesis, concerns itself with how natural the behavior of a character is, how far the actions of the character agree with what the player believes should happen in such a context. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Is it (strong AI) necessary or even desirabele for practical benefits?\u8221\'94 Goodwinds. Newman - experience of playing games is kinaesthetic, not visual - about how it works as a system - autocosmics, rather than representational. How things sit in a systems.\u8221\'94This idea is in direct opposition to all current trends in animation, which take the route of desperately trying to look real, usually by realistic lighting and rendering, or by forcing a hand-made or naive appearance. At the time of writing, this trend shows no apparent signs of ceasing\u8221\'94 - too big a sphere. Prom Week - \u8220\'93social simulation game\u8221\'94 - \u8220\'93make social interactions truly playable\u8221\'94. Emergent, systemic approaches to social situations just like in other games (use Angry Birds physics engine as example). \u8220\'935,000 rules of social norms and behaviours\u8221\'94 - not a sustainable way to do it. Role is now \u8220\'93aggressive machine learning (rather than hand-encoding of knowledge\u8221\'94 }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Game AI development is a mixture of techniques and infrastructure with aa generous dose of ad hoc solutions, heuristics and bits of code that look like hacks\u8221\'94 Learning - \u8220\'93hot topic\u8221\'94 in games. Has \u8220\'93the potential to produce more believable characters\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \tx960\tx1440\li720\fi-360\ri-998\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 "fundamentally incomplete [realism], full of gaps and white spots"}
\par\pard\plain \tx960\tx1440\li720\ri-998\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3  Better tech achieves a "stronger reality effect". Just focussing on database. "who determines what will be filled and what will remain a gap in the simulated world?"}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\ltrch\loch \ls3\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3  Will technological advances have a ceiling? How far can we go? The end of Moore\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s law, processor density etc. We still have problems, especially with many technologies surrounding character-to-character interaction such as speech (Gris et al, Newell and Edwards 2008) - and when do we decide that we have \u8220\'93solved\u8221\'94 these problems? As Mullaney points out (drawing on the work of Lewis Jacobs), film became art when it moved past \u8220\'93scientific curiosity to a creative enterprise\u8221\'94 - focussing on subject matter, using the tools we have. Games are computational in their uniqueness. Their graphics are not what define them. How they computer is important. New technology has not made films better, has it? OK, it is a traditional narrative technique, but still\u8230\'85 NWF points out that realism does not give us more authorial control. While we no longer have a \u8220\'93quest for perfect illusion\u8221\'94 (Manovich), it is still talked about in how we build our characters. "The dominances of photographic and cinematic imagery", very \u8220\'93efficient for cultural }
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 - but we have another way to communicate, a more challenged but particular way. Don\u8217\'92t want to abandon computationality. Bogost on simulators - \u8220\'93The closer one gets to the perfection of a simulacrum\u8230\'85 the more evident it becomes\u8221\'94. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Dansky (2007) - "immersion is arguably the ultimate goal of videoogames" - issues of identification }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 "fully simulate human though, behaviour, emotions is a long way off" - but this is missing the point entirely! Issue also that it is contained on a machine - the "naive physics of computing" - a book can do what a book can do, we don't expect it to do anything else - we feel that there is no upper bound to the machine. These ideas of realism and freedom in games do not correspond to drama - need more limitation (Re. Laurel). "graphic sophistication began yielding diminishing returns" - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Increasingly visceral representational technologies\u8221\'94. Not trying to make strong AI - we talk about it a lot, even if we do not rely on it in our games or art. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf6\cb3\highlight3 Vaucanson\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s duck - a \u8220\'93good example of simulation\u8221\'94 - not the innards, just the excretions. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93A simulator will become a work that shows the intrinsic impossibility of representing a chosen subject with playable computer graphics, rather than computation\u8217\'92s inevitable mastery of the physical world\u8221\'94."the achievement of photorealism is the main goal of research in the field of computer graphics" - manovich sees this as the reason they aren't seen as art. Uncanny valley becomes a problem. }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stuart_J._Russell"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf8\cb3\highlight3 Stuart Russell}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 \~and\~}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peter_Norvig"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf8\cb3\highlight3 Peter Norvig}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 \~observe that most AI researchers "don't care about the strong AI hypothesis\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 as long as the program works, they don't care whether you call it a simulation of intelligence or real intelligence."}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chinese_room#cite_note-FOOTNOTERussellNorvig2003947-4"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\super\cf8\cb3\highlight3 [}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\super\cf8\cb3\highlight3  }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf6\cb3\highlight3 Think that \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93serious technical limitations\u8221\'94 no longer exist - I think they do. Partiality - Anthropy and Clark talk about "elegance" of design keeping things as simple as possible.In theater, we write a script, but the actor\u8217\'92s performance of it is up to her. But we nevertheless compose the shape of the scene. We give the player (another theater word) liberty to perform a scene; this is where the choices come in. The choices that a player makes come from the verbs we give her, so we have the ability to constrain and design what those choices are. A fictionalized ideal of the videogame is that it gives the player the ability to do anything, to choose anything. There are games that aim for this kind of wish fulfillment and mostly result in weak}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf6\cb3\highlight3 experiences, lacking cohesion and focus. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Talking about sophisticated psychological modelling for agents - this is a lot of work, though. Also, artists relying on somebody else's model of psychology.  - }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3 "highly codified situation" - we do not expect to be able to do lots of different things with character. Illusion of intelligence is only possible because of severe limitations.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3 "The tech world is driven by aggressive utopianism tied to a commercial drive. Therefore, AI (and tech art, in many ways) rarely looks backward, only forward."}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f2\fs24\b0\i1\cf4\cb3\highlight3
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\sa160\sb160\ltrch\loch \ls3\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Not saying not to rely on technology, or to query new technologies. As Mullaney points out, technology is a means to express. After all, new techniques within a medium should never be rejected because of Romanticism. (}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf5\cb3\highlight3 What new techniques and technologies does the masterbeast rely on?}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 ) However, the relentless pursuit of new engineering as a panacea for a very human problem (relating to a representation) will not bear fruit in general. Arguably, the problem has not improved. And systematising takes us away from the audience, to finding more and more formal techniques to solve our problems, which in their turn produce new problems, and must ultimately come down to the same judge - the audience. }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93The visionary impulse fades away as technological progress becomes the sole focus\u8221\'94. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 NAUGHTY DOGS APPROACH OF USING HUMAN ACTORS TO IMPROVE BELIEVABILITY.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Games sired by these new technologies emphasize tech aspects over dramatic themes\u8221\'94.Emmanuel Tanguy - facial animations \u8220\'93could influence people\u8217\'92s perception of a virtual actor\u8221\'94 - different facial expressions but displayed concurrently. 2 types of emotions/facial expressions - serconday emotion and mood. Mood is a chording effect, a modifier, each displayed together to display complex emotion - also not just a technical feat, but a semantic feat as well - understanding the construction of emotion on a face intimately. "more realistic gestures and facial expressions" There is a difference between game characters as engineering success and artistic success. They can be brought together, but rarely are. }
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Points out that game character's issues comes from increased simulatory power - uncanny valley. "less-than-perfect" rather than deliberately abstract.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 We argue that believability is a more practical concept than intelligence. - bogdanovych et al }
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ri0\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 What I am building is what Russel and Norvig would call a \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93model-based reflex agent\u8221\'94 or model-based, goal-based agent. - built using BOD, a 11-year-old method that does not rely on internal state very much. What is the internal state model like?}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93It is a common mistake that the more complex the AI in the game, the better the characters will look to the player\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Limitations of the Gamemaker engine = fruitful - especially for somebody who could learn everything, try everything - don\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t WANT to have all of the current techniques available to me}
\par\pard\plain \sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Constructing large common sense knowledge bases by hand, an approach that has not fared well to date" - is there somewhere in the middle - imbuing a system with knowledge but leaving some of it to occur outside.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ri0\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls4\ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3 Relying On Multiplayer }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 - that is, have all characters in the game be PCs, and do not try to create a systemic character at all. Allow a human mind to be behind the computation? \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Multiplayer games have}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 been the rule rather than the exception for most of history\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Why doesn\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t this really always work. Still bound by the design of the system - what people can do with their character can still affect resonance. Also then have issues of them not sticking to the coherence truth of the world - messing about. Also, this is not really the focus of this - looking at ways that a system can create a character through authorship. This is a separate challenge; as a methodology, I am interesting in my ability to author characters, not author roles for humans to perform. Also makes escapism, an important part. Competitive multiplayer games have a long legacy of putting this responsibility in the hands of players. \u8220\'93Single-player games face a different kind of problem because the player is alone in conver-sation with a system that can only say as much as its designer has allowed it to.\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3 Pursuing \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8216\'91Believability\u8217\'92 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 - problems of this.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls4\ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3 Games Without Characters }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 - games which have no NPCs. Will talk about this more in Chapter 3.}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3  "If a game works without a character, it shouldn't have one". }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Very, very popular now (}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf7\cb3\highlight3 egs?}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 ). However, cannot be the entirety of the artform. Again, this problem of sticking to certain things. This is a genre technique, should not be a medium-related one. Not pushing the envelope.}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3  \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Walking simulators were always doomed to be a transitional form\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 (Bogost) - not sure I agree with \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93transitional\u8221\'94, but certainly not the be-all and end-all.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3 The \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8216\'91Indie Scene\u8217\'92 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 - Often seen as a saviour for the artform, indeed elevating to an \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91artform\u8217\'92 - many resonant characters come from these games (}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf7\cb3\highlight3 examples?}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 ). Developed between 2008/2010 (Indie Entitlement). Is it that different? \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93White dudes remaking Mario\u8221\'94 ( Anna Anthropy). Points out blurring of boundaries between mainstream and indie. Characters still have this problem here - more \u8216\'91serious\u8217\'92 subject matter, but still handled using existing paradigms, often. Important to resonant character, but not the \u8216\'91saviour\u8217\'92 as it is portrayed to be. A \u8216\'91stagnant culture\u8217\'92 with a \u8216\'91cult of marketability\u8217\'92. Still "simple technological 'hook'[s] or larger-scale complicated technical systems." \u8220\'93the indie space is little different from the AAA space" (Indie Entitlement). The rise of the \u8220\'93empathy game\u8221\'94, which systematise emotions, or just layer emotion over existing game designs. \u8216\'91Empathy is not a genre\u8217\'92. Or often constrain narrative (games without characters, games with restricted characters) or the system, which is fine, but not all games can do this.}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3  "games have been ringing changes on the same few subjects". }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 In indie games, even though the dressing is different, the mechanics underneath are often the same. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Much \~of \~the \~\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93indie \~games\u8221\'94 movement \~is \~about \~questioning \~the \~designed \~presumptions \~of \~mainstream commercial \~games. - is it really, Eric? }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 We can\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t always rely on puzzles, gamey elements for our characterisation. The home of the \u8220\'93reflective choice\u8221\'94, and indeed the \u8220\'93reflective\u8221\'94 NPC (TWD) - not really systemic. Nothing wrong with this, but not potential. \u8220\'93Your decision\u8230\'85 will be of ethical importance to yourself.\u8221\'94 The \u8216\'91illusion\u8217\'92 of choice, as well. \u8220\'93Illusion of control\u8221\'94 (klug) - maybe need to choose more carefully what is controlled. Tightly controlled realm in TWD and Fables, but still has issues. "This has lead to both creative and critical tensions over the past decade with the rise of genres that put aside an interest in intellectualised and complex systems in place of invoking particular emotions." }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3 These guys (Anthropy and Clark) are talking about 'games', which have a specific goal as a piece of art - not all computer systems need this. I\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92m more with Samyn. A lot of what she talks about is about moving in space, rules, manipulation, power, danger.  }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 "zinesters" - anna anthropy - Difficulty of changing the culture - " a world of roguelikes, in-jokes and assumed knowledge?". }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93In recent years low-interaction, low-challeneg 3-D games have become quite popular\u8221\'94. T (rapture)Trying to frame NPC convos with camera - a type of agency. TWA (study) - felt that strong characterisation not tied to her interactions, didn\u8217\'92t lead to character development \u8220\'93doing the story for them\u8221\'94 - "empathy is not a genre" - not just the types of stoories, but the types of systems.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ri-998\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 "often overwritten and designed to limit the amount of dynamism or development the characters are allowed to have"}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Indie scene cannot escape mercantilism as well.}
\par\pard\plain \tx960\tx1440\li720\fi-360\ri-998\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 "A lot of the same stories are being told right now" (Campo Santo). }
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cb3\highlight3
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cb3\highlight3 Conclusions}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cb3\highlight3
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 The problems are large, and widespread, and make creating resonant computational characters very difficult. It is a problem that reflects on the challenges of narratives in computational art in general - }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93repetitive themes and stereotyped storylines\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 (Ryan), beautiful but empty worlds, and a continuing lack of resonance despite great technological advances. Characters that we don\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t \u8220\'93give a shit\u8221\'94 about (Life Is Strange lady at AI Summit), \u8220\'93too simple\u8221\'94 nodal, mechanical realities, subservient to the game\u8217\'92s structure, in which the \u8220\'93pretty fragile\u8230\'85 illusion of humanity\u8221\'94 (Elizabeth talk) is routinely destroyed, to the point where it is no longer worried about, and even lampooned and capitalised by the companies that produce such characters. }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 "The best interactive stories are still worse than even middling books and films". \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Hardly any games, or interactive media of any sort, can reasonably aspire to character believability within this technical generation.\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 (Togelius) - still sees it as an issue of tech! }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 "such game moments are far too rare" }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 - characters as drivers of emotions in games. Games are still about "mainly interacting with purely "physical" processes"  }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3 Jesper Juul (more ludologist) - in zimmerman's piece in First Person - maybe privileging character, plot etc. is the problem, that games aren'y goof gor this. "asking games to focus on their weaknesses rather than their strengths"}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls5\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Has led to a strange abnegation of character in the industry - Bethesda making fun of its own characters, is fun to play around with them - but isn\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t that weird, that we are doing that? "Instead of embracing the artistic potential of the medium, we have retreated into the comfortable zone of gaming."}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\ri-998\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3  "most of the time they go unnoticed, sitting on the periphery, regurgitating the same three Lines"}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Klug points out do want "interactive traditional storytelling", but also systemics. - therefore an author of a suystem}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Some people think we should give up. Ludologist/narratologist debate - games, and by extension computer systems, cannot do empathy, or character, very well, because of their }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 very nature}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 . Celia Pearce points out that games, producing unauthored experiences, will find characters outside of the avatar very difficult. }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 "Games are good at objectification. Stories are good at empathy. Games tend to quantise, reduce and classify. Stories tend to blur, deepen and make subtle distinctions"}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 . }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93The objective of creating a fully believable NPC within a game may be an impossible one.\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3  Koster questions whether games can do things like character well. Literature is more broad in its outlook. }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 "Can a game designer pick anying to simulate, or are there inherent limitations" }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 - Robinett thinks that anything can be simulated. S+Z think that the fact that games need to be about conflict might predispose games to certain narratives. (Conflict over territory (char as enviro), economic conflict or conflict over knowledge.) but that there is the potential for exploration. \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Just as in real life, the worlds of literary fiction are replete with complicated individuals whose inner lives are rarely easily discerned but warrant exploration.\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf6\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Videogames tend to focus on fighting and strategy, exploration, puzzle-solving\u8230\'85 these types of external conflicts are far easier to portray in a game-like fashion than the more internal emotional conflicts that are often the focus of things like romance novels and sitcoms.\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \tx960\tx1440\li720\fi-360\ri-998\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3  "truly tough design challenges" "may take generations to develop".}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 The problems of the term believability, and why I think resonance is better. }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 "natural or believable [characters] cannot be achieved mechanically, or by copying, or wishful thinking, but only by careful building, understanding, and a love for the characters."}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93deliciously difficult, unsolved game design problems\u8221\'94 (Zimmerman)}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Kopas - videogames are the aesthetic form of rationalization}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cb3\highlight3 "frustration" for Zimmerman atr lack of cultural sophistications... and limitations of... technology"}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 "The fact that the technology is capable of simulating living landscapes and convincingly representing human forms comes with a set of responsibilities, and generates understandable expectations."}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Robin Hunicke - games aren't tackling "vulnerability", "intimacy" etc. }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 need "richer social behaviour"}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf6\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf6\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Ongoing effort to integrate the story more tightly with the gameplay\u8221\'94 - often feels \u8220\'93tacked on\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 "the design space of games can be broaden to incorporate richer character design that affect gameplay besides narration"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 oatley - "Just as computer simulations can help us get to grips with complex problems such as flying a plane or forecasting the weather, so novels, stories and dramas can help us understand the complexities of social life.\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf6\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf6\cb3\highlight3 "STILL A LOT LEFT TO FIGURE OUT" - A+C}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 Bailey - "incredibly challenging and complex task...in desperate need of further examination". A "worthy problem".}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Hruska - "We\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92ve been stuck with wooden cutouts for a long time now."}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93If videogames currently rely on external action, can a playable game be made where the focus is on internal action?\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3  - McMullan}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 In 1984, Turkle called games \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93a new kind of intimacy with machines\u8221\'94  not so new anymore, but still not very intimate.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 This creates both opportunities and challenges for creators of these works - producing 'resonant' characters (i.e. those from which Oatley's simulation can be run satisfactorily) is difficult, because so much more needs to be simulated/built (creative burden), much more complicated, work within the mechanical/digital system of the experience, work well with the player's input. So much more can go wrong in the transmission/conversation between, and we do not have a good grammar/techniques, yet, for producing beings - the grammars are being developed for other things, and more traditional techniques ladled on top, or the idea of character.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Games need to make people care about their subjects, and their subject\u8217\'92s feelings.\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 "My confidence in the future of literature consists in the knowledge that there are things that only literature can give us, by means specific to it"}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 "many experiences can be considered narrative experiences. How would we make a game-story about these kinds of subjects?"}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\ri-998\sa160\sb160\sl360\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f3\fs22\b0\i1\cf4\cb3\highlight3 ,}{\f4\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3  }{\f3\fs22\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 a \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93hypothetical future [in which] players could interact with computerized characters as round as those in novels or films, making choices that would influence an ever-evolving plot."}{\f4\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3  (Bogost). }
\par\pard\plain \tx960\tx1440\li720\fi-720\ri-998\sl360\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch \f4\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3
\par\pard\plain \sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ri0\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf6\cb3\highlight3
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3
\par\pard\plain \sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cb3\highlight3 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 }
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3}