{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 ArialMT;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial-BoldMT;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial-ItalicMT;}{\f4\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Georgia;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red251\green4\blue7;\red68\green68\blue68;\red0\green3\blue255;}
{\*\listtable
{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f0\fs24\b0\i0\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f0\fs24\b0\i0\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f0\fs24\b0\i0\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f0\fs24\b0\i0\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f0\fs24\b0\i0\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid6\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f0\fs24\b0\i0\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid6}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 These are the major problems that make it challenging to produce resonant computational characters that explore the fuller potentials of their medium - problems of the nature of the medium, the nature of the approaches taken, and the solutions proposed. For some, the conclusion is that computational art cannot be a character-led medium - that even if narrative has its place, the difficulty of creating resonant virtual beings means that character-based narrative experiences will never be the forte of the medium.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 I see this as a challenge - have been heartened by many of the experiences I have had with computational characters (}{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cf3 examples?}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ), and believe that actually their potential is great - different from that of books or film, but that we can find novel ways of approaching the creation of character, outside of the mainstream.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 This project takes up the challenge, and a series of approaches, exemplified by the artwork itself (in the design of the installation and the }{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 masterbeast}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , and the themes and specifics of the narrative explored in the }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 Housekeeping}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ) to try and surmount these challenges and produce a resonant computational character, using an approach informed by my concept of autocosmics explored in the last chapter.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 It is a holistic approach - as the third and fourth chapters shall demonstrate, the entire artwork, both its explicitly computational and non-computational elements, takes up this challenge. At its heart, it is an approach which attempts to balance the role of imagination and of digital procedurality in creating such characters.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0 The First Half Of This Balance - Imagination, & The Nature And Location Of Computation}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \li720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Using the imagination to "paste over" the difficulties of creating meaningful, character-led systems is nothing new - games rely heavily on psychological and imaginative impulses in their audience to augment their concrete representations. This is not a controversial or new stance. This has become a very important, fashionable stance. The \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93weak AI\u8221\'94 approach. Origins in Turing Test - \u8220\'93aesthetic illusion is therefore a transmedial, transmodal and transgeneric phenomenon\u8221\'94 - "an agent\u8217\'92s capacity to both enable and manage the adoption of the intentional stance in a player" - "predictable, contextual behavior is enough to trigger the intentional stance, through a process not dissimilar to narrative closure, and an information load that gives just enough to enable this process \endash  but no more"}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 It is not novel to say that, like every type of artwork, the imagination, the autocosmics, of the audience is an important augmentative force in the resonance of the characters and narratives contained within it - even if we frame this as a different type of computation. This is not something which games and other computational artforms neglect - all of them realise, even in their technological utopianism, that }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93the}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 success of an AI-based artwork is based on audience perception". }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Mention this exemplified in the perceived differences between \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91academic\u8217\'92 AI and \u8216\'91industry\u8217\'92 AI (Togelius and others), especially in the work on \u8216\'91non-platonic AI\u8217\'92 by Bungie in HALO and now copied by many others. }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93Tricks, arcane optimizations, and unproven techniologies\u8221\'94 -}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  since the early days of simpler characters. \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Whereas computer simulations run on computers, literary simulations\u8230\'85 run on minds\u8221\'94 - So according to this theory the performance of a play or the text of a novel is a simulation just as a computer program can be a simulation; and in order to work the simulation must be run.\u8221\'94 - However, it has been debated whether humanlike internal processes are necessary at all, or whether the replication of surface displays is sufficient for a believable and effective communication. Kramer, Iurgel, and Bente (2005) argue that to reach the ultimate goal of an ECA \endash  to make the human\endash computer interaction more intuitive and to manipulate the emotions of the user \endash  it is not necessary to simulate internal processes in terms of an emotion model or motivation model. Instead they propose a conversational function model where emotional expressions are seen as purely instrumental and disconnected from the feeling of emotions (cf. Fridlund, 1991) - Companion cube}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93When you are designing a game you are not designing just a set of rules, but a set of rules that will always be experienced as play within a cultural context\u8230\'85 you never have the luxury of forgetting about context\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Turkle\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s \u8221\'94tools to think with\u8221\'94.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}\f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}\f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93The computer, like a Rorshach inkblot test, is a powerful projective medium.\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93A stirring narrative in any medium can be experienced as a virtual reality\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Games are very interested in neuroscience and player's perceptions - (The Gamer's Brain, Celia Hodent)}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}\f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}\f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Talk about Oatley here - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93the mind\u8217\'92s flight simulator\u8221\'94, fiction \u8220\'93offer[s] us cues to our theory-of-mind processes\u8221\'94 - \u8220\'93get the whole thing to run\u8221\'94 - his view of mimesis as simulation, \u8220\'93run on the minds of the audience, as a computer simulation runs on a computer\u8221\'94, novels and plays \u8220\'93guide the simulation process\u8221\'94 - \u8220\'93Literary simulations run on minds of audiences or readers, just as computer simulations run on computers.\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Only, it may be that humanity\u8217\'92s capacity for living in empirical and virtual worlds at once is not a late-twentieth century development, even if current technology brings this characteristic into sharper relief. It may be that varieties of theater and games of all sorts have always been helping us into the place away from the lives that nature forces on us, where the worlds we imagine are possible.\u8221\'94 - \u8220\'93A stirring narrative in any medium can be experienced as a virtual reality\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}\f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs24\b1\i0	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 The many ways that games and other computational artworks have courted and used the \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8216\'91aesthetic illusion\u8217\'92 AND \u8220\'93non-aesthetic illusion\u8221\'94 of the audience, especially with characters }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93reflective choices\u8221\'94 or \u8220\'93the illusion of choice\u8221\'94 (Anthropy & Clark) in games (The Walking Dead) - If you look for choice, you are \u8216\'91robbing yourself of the illusion\u8217\'92 \u8220\'93Power over plot seems limited\u8221\'94 - ontological geek - Games like The Wolf Among Us have their ma- jor plot points laid out and will follow through with their progression no matter what the player does - but there are still plenty of options given to her. Their purpose is to re- flect on the events of the story rather than to lead them. In this perspective, "The actor\u8217\'92s reasons for taking their actions are predetermined by the author to lend believability to their behaviours"(Thue, Bulitko, & Spetch, 2008). (Stadeler) - Abbott and many other fans find her even more compelling than a character in a work of fiction, because players of the game are responsible for her survival.(BUT NOT REALLY!) - , the \u8220\'93representational and narrative power\u8221\'94 of the computer with ELIZA and PARRY through the \u8220\'93intentional stance\u8221\'94 (re. H&S - Talk about parasites as tribute to heider and simmels experiment, now called \u8216\'91The ELIZA Effect\u8217\'92 - - "attributing greater intelligence or intentionality to a machine than it possesses"  Braitenberg Vehicles (Emmeche)) - }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1\cf1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93Weizenbaum had set out to make a clever computer program and had unwittingly created a believable character\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 (Murray), }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1\cf1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93maintains the illusion\u8230\'85 with very little machinery\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 commented on by Thomas Was Alone - }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1\cf1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93love how such simple shapes can form such strong personalities\u8230\'85 found myself imagining little conversations between them as I played.\u8220\'93}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (Stephen O\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92Donnell) - in study, gendering characters, switching between first and third person depending on control, even though he said \u8220\'93\u8220\'93If these two can even be called characters\u8221\'94 or \u8220\'93ridiculous\u8221\'94 to say that they had personalities - naming him, telling him to \u8220\'93come on, Thomas/you\u8221\'94, compares them to a friend\u8217\'92s ex-boyfriend or their friends with the same name,, gives them personality traits such as \u8220\'93innocent\u8221\'94, \u8220\'93pessimistic\u8221\'94, \u8220\'93rude\u8221\'94 - \u8220\'93It\u8217\'92s not just a block\u8221\'94. Even felt like the narration was paying attention to what she did! Thomas\u8217\'92 dark soul was alone says that we don\u8217\'92t really need the narrator, could turn the sound off. "I found myself describing the game avatars as if they were social others without cognizantly recognizing I was doing so. " "Looking at things pragmatically, the role of the team is to build a system that shows signs of intelligence. "The best strategy for that is to find the right balance between human supervision and technology." - \u8220\'93Ideally you want to borrow the intelligence of the designers to make the AI seem smart, but you want to use the generalization of code to make the intelligence procedural (you can\u8217\'92t ship a designer on a CD).\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Matea\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s \u8220\'93interactionist AI\u8221\'94 - based on player participation rather than GOFAI which thought about technological completeness and interiority.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Huizinga\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93playing of the mind\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 in personification - let the mind do some of the processing.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 This is essentially what \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93believability\u8221\'94 is, as an approach - relying on the player\u8217\'92s imagination to }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 perceive}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  the agents as fully-formed beings. T&B - believability as 'experienced' (in player's mind) rather than 'encoded' (drawing on magerko's work on believability being in the eye of the beholder). }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 "the field of intentional agents within computer science can be seen as creating programs to which humans take the intentional stance" }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - NIM looking at this as well. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Thus, the general idea of believability is to enhance and ease human\endash machine interaction by using natural and intuitive codes of human communication\u8221\'94 -  Humans have certain expectations about communicative signals, patterns, and reactions of interaction partners. Believability of an ECA means that humans can apply their usual mental models of communication.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93The beauty of the NPC illusion is that, when well-done, it can hide enormous limitations in the interactivity of the character.\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 User Model and System Model - about the allying the two of them. "mental models are not always accurate" - "Mental Models" (1983 & 2006, Johnson-Laird) paper, "internal model" Veldhuyzen and Stassen (1976) 1953 Kenneth Craik used the term, Willet Kempton's "folk theory", using simulation to inform decisions - princeton paper talks about applying rules in a mental simulation - conditionals, etc - "A mental model is a representation of some domain or situation that supports understanding, reasoning, and prediction" (Gentner) - "naive or folk theories" - "qualitiative relations" between things - Games are very interested in neuroscience and player's perceptions - (The Gamer's Brain, Celia Hodent) - design is all about predicting errors in mental models and allowing for them. }
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 In McCorduck\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s definition, I am not creating intelligence, bu inviting it.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Less narratively - through affordance, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93juice\u8221\'94, the work of Donald Norman, }
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Remember, imagination is a continuum - therefore, in all cases, it is about entering into a reception contract, both subconscious and conscious, to allow what is represented to resonate - and that resonance can be triggered by very small representations.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93The architecture is crafted in such a way as to enable just those authorial affordances that allow the artists to manipulate the interpretive affordances dictated by the concept of the piece.\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Hilgard - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93transportation\u8230\'85 may be too passive\u8221\'94 (in Oatley)}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93nothing between the audience and the stage [or functionality] but some good illusion.\u8221\'94 (Laurel)}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The human being is an \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93indisputable ingredient of the representation\u8221\'94 (Laurel)}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 simulations of fiction allow 'personal truths' to be explored -> emtional response, understand aspects of themselves.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Games are not a self-contained logical system - they involve human psychology }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 "Expressive AI views a system as a performance"}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 "AI researcher strives to eliminate any reference to human perception of their artifact" - what about HCI, I think he's being reductive.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Believability comes close to what we want - both how the look and the system.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Naive physics of computing\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Semiotics relates to our ability to understand that signs represent. }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Games are not just mechnical constraints, but semiotic constraints as well - affordances.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Glitches in a character\u8217\'92s though process can be interpreted in many acceptable ways (hestiation, sluggisheness, character flaws)\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Naomi Alderman talking about parsing her character's flaws.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Computer interface acts as a code that carries cultural messages\u8221\'94?}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 "It remains to be seen whether we can capture the illusion of "the incalculability of life" with the emotional calculus of the computer. In the meantime, the most pleasurably surprising interactive characters may be those who are created with considerably less programming."}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Reversal of Weiz' prophesy in a way - we now realise the limitations of computing, certainly in the arts.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Extra Credits (Enriching Lives) - Geth conundrum in Mass Effect 2 - small computational remit, but the narrative remit provides the depth. }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Don't always need mechanical stats - the autocosmic tendency will cover the drawing of meaning.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Problem of relying on autocosmics - we "iconify" things we see a lot, break it down. }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}\f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 "the bare mechanics of the game do not determine its semantic freight" - a combination of the two.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 "the rules [should be] onformed by our understanding of human beings themselves - counters that react according to the newly discovered rules of human minds"}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 S+Z - we "participate in [their] representation" (the characters)}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Narrative descriptors - explicit, concrete representations which help reveal the narrative in games. Essentially representations that use autocosmics to lend narrative meaning to the activities.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}\f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 "It does not come as a surprise, however, that despite fierce opposition, particularly in recent cultural history, aesthetic illusion seems to be more alive than ever and continues to influence the development of contemporary (digital) technology for, in particular, commercial representations (resulting, e.g., in the enhanced life-likeness of films on blu-ray 3 D discs with dolby 5.1 surround sound), since immersion appears to cater well to a fundamental human need for imaginary experience."}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93a conceptual model\u8230\'85 doesn\u8217\'92t have to be complete or even accurate, as long as it is useful\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93dictional personality\u8221\'94 - as performance}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Amazingly, when examined closely, memorable characters in IF are really doing much the same things that their more forgettable counterparts are doing -- roaming about the map, reacting to single words, serving as puzzles to be overcome by the right object or objects to overcome the right puzzle. }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Talk about autocosmics - about how players (p20) think that the Pacman ghosts have better AI than they do.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Simple things that can give the illusion of intelligence\u8221\'94 - simple things are good, but maybe not good enough.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Games have a cultural context - this informs the autocosmics. Your relationship with these characters. Reflect and transform culture through play. Consider games "as a cultural text".}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Psychological design rationale\u8221\'94 - Carroll and Rosson}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Put the user first, keep the user in the center and remember the user at the end.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93From the user\u8217\'92s perspective, the interface is the system\u8221\'94 - is this a problem? How can this be used?}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 HCI book - computer work is all about human perception and autocosmics - focus on how the eye works.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Principles and results from research in psychology have been distilled into guidelines for design\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 HCI is autocosmics - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93can help us design interactive systems which support the former and compensate for the latter\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Process of information transfer\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Cognitive architectures\u8221\'94 of users - how their imaginations work.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Employ \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93naive psychology\u8221\'94 - predict what the user will be doing at any one time.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Formal system\u8230\'85 mainfest through experiential output\u8221\'94 - autocosmic interpretation}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Montfort - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93the establishment of systems that have meaning outside their own closed workings\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 emotions in games guide our responses, our choices and our interactions.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93What videogames do so well is not a sudden phenomenon. It is a continuation and convergence of a variety of art practices over hundreds of years.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Character glitches can become character, can become part of how we play the game - but disconnects the narrative from the gameplay, the experience.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Perceived info\u8221\'94 is autocosmics.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93System fully come to life\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Dormant relationships\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The Cognitivist Theory of Affordances in Games is thus a theoretical contribution, which synthesizes several views by presenting three independent manipulable entities that are relevant to the study of games: 1) real affordances, what actions are possible in a game, 2) perceived affordances, what actions players perceive possible in a game, and 3) feedback, perceptual information introduced in the game by its designers to advertise real}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 affordances in the hopes of eliciting accurate perceived affordances.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}\f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0 The Second Half Of This Balance - The Computational, The Systemic}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls3\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Must keep the systemic, computational nature of the medium in mind, and strive to use imagination in conjunction with the systemic - this is the medium we have, and it is only becoming more complicated in this regard. We cannot be scared of, or disregard, the grammar of the medium.}{\f3\fs24\b0\i1  \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93The vocabulary of a game\u8217\'92s system can help convey a story through its very structure.\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93the expressive power of video games flows through their formal qualities\u8221\'94.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 However, the system itself is also important - this is the stuff of the artist, this is the opportunity, the potential, for comp art. Cannot neglect the system as a medium, as a locale of the meaning. Do not take reader-response ideas that there is no inherent meaning in the text - it is instilled by a human being, the author (need more pro-author rhetoric here?) - somewhere between the formalists and the reader-response people. Need formalism, in a way. We have the opportunity to create systems that have inherent meaning, inherent ways of working that mean something, that we can observe and which resonate with us as we augment them imaginatively as well. Need more of a balance. I see this balance lacking in many games at the moment. }
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch \ls3\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93The AI-based artist should avoid architectural elaborations which are not visible to the audience.\u8221\'94 - not sure I agree with him. Visibility is also a relative thing. Eliza Effect - cannot be completely hidden internal structure, or completely open. (NWF).}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Turkle worries that the rules of games (mathematical in nature) are limiting. She thinks that making the rules too clear is a bad idea - freeform play allows identification, simulation, fictive empathy - we can have both, as has been proved.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 "The entertainment industry has long believed that the highest payoffs would come from offering the public media that combine action and imaginative identification.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 " the game can withhold some of the complexities of the rules from the player. When the player discovers those complexities later, it feels like a story is developing."}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Looking at Formalist and other positions of character arising emergent from system - I am interested in this, but also we are making a system.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Don\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t just simulate very basic things and leave the narrative significance to non-systemics - must combine the two.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Balance between \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93performance and simulation\u8221\'94 of intelligence.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Pinchbeck - "ecological sense" or "ecological validity" - whether things make sense within the system or through "semantic characterisation" - both are important. }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Bringjord - Need "rich mental structures", a "theory of mind" - too many deficiencies, too much partiality in the wrong place, and it all falls apart. }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 They think that "simple engineering tricks" are not enough.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 They can be, sometimes, but don't see them as tricks - as how we relate to other people as well.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Tricking "will always fail" }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Think about how the autocosmic narratives we are telling ourselves fit the reality of the system.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Consider behaviourism "bankrupt"}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Is necessarily partial (Forrester, 1971)}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 There are some very specific systemics in TWA (\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94level design created a bit of camaraderie\u8221\'94, had \u8220\'93interdependency\u8221\'94), but not a lot, not a lot of room for self-expression - not open, still tightly controlled, manipulated.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Just relying on imagination can lead to \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93thresholds of credulity\u8221\'94, where the system cannot keep up with the imagination. See this generally in the Problems section.This can lead to a \u8220\'93system\u8221\'94 which is superficially \u8216\'91believable\u8217\'92, but which doesn\u8217\'92t bear up to scrutiny, which is inevitably what players will do. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf4 Imagination and human computation in the marketing process - simulate the game before it exists - this can be a problem. CRIT - Telltale games set an \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91obvious expectation\u8217\'92 for meaningful choices which is then let down - this is partly marketing - maybe we should talk less mechanistically about this stuff. }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf4 "the game can withhold some of the complexities of the rules from the player. When the player discovers those complexities later, it feels like a story is developing."}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf4 But they are building a "micromodel" - maybe a full mental model is not possible.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf4 I do have a very simple model of this.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf4 Frude -  A much stronger animistic effect can be expected}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf4 when there is an opportunity for the user to interact with systems that have simulated}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf4 character.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf4 Need "animism, artistry and AI" in equal measures. Imagination, authorship and systematics.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf4	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf4 The systematics has been the problem, for Frude.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls3\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Mateas\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 \u8220\'93interactionist\u8221\'94 approach needs to be balanced with some of the structures from GOFAI. (as I have done in the creature). }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Not just about authorial intent - must let go to a certain extent, but it certainly seems that bugs are the slipping away of authorial intent from the system - (In Defense of Bethesda\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s Bugs) a player decides that that is the only reality, not what the author \u8216\'91intended\u8217\'92.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Allying the system model and user model does not just mean \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93complete transparency\u8221\'94 - it is about managing not just narrative mystery, but systemic mystery as well, and using each to reveal the other.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}\f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 However, it has been debated whether humanlike internal processes are necessary at all, or whether the replication of surface dis- plays is sufficient for a believable and effective communication. Kra \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u168\'A8mer, Iurgel, and Bente (2005) argue that to reach the ultimate goal of an ECA \endash  to make the human\endash computer interaction more intuitive and to manipulate the emotions of the user \endash  it is not necessary to simulate internal processes in terms of an emotion model or motivation model. Instead they propose a conversational function model where emotional expressions are seen as purely instrumental and disconnected from the feeling of emotions (cf. Fridlund,}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1991). - don't need to have this, but do need to think about the systems that you do have - are the characters part of this?}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Physical simulation of a person is unnecessary for intelligence\u8221\'94 - comparing to the birth of flight - we are not attempting to fly.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf5 The balance between the two of these is the real issue - between the imagined and the represented, not between \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93play and narrative\u8221\'94, or \u8220\'93story and game\u8221\'94. Deciding what parts of the drum to build - which pieces will resonate, and how. What to be computed on machine and what in the mind. I have experienced  some computational artworks that I think have gotten the balance right }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\cf5 (examples? Galatea, Thomas Was Alone) }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf5 - which gives me hope. Many of the problems of character come from the pendulum swinging too far one way or another, her story, to a certain extent. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Emergence - Steven Johnson (discernible macro-behaviours), Conway\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s game of life. Telling stories about patterns. Game of Life - \u8220\'93wonderful example of the principles of emergence and complexity\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf5
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1 My Own Attempt At Balance - An Autocosmic Approach}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls4\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The struggles of computational character, if we take Curries\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92/Pearces\u8217\'92 approach, is the struggle of computational narrative itself - how to ally it to the methodology and the form of the computational, not just how to layer a story on top. Separating \u8220\'93game\u8221\'94 and \u8220\'93story\u8221\'94 seems very wrong-headed.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls4\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Computational art\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s interest in human psychology often seems cynical, or more concerned with \u8216\'91tricks\u8217\'92 - compulsion loops, or utilising more traditional techniques from the arts - such as aesthetic illusion. We are not making bookish or filmic characters. }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93The majority\u8230\'85 of game stories [are] delivered using techniques from other media.\u8221\'94 - \u8220\'93artists have been working to understand it for millennia.\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Loyall says to draw on characters from across the arts. Not sure it\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s such a good idea! "comparing new media to print, photography or telvision will never tell us the whole story" - new media is just another kind of computer data. How does this influence characters? Maybe we do not to look to the arts, but not to the explicitly \u8216\'91narrative\u8217\'92 forms.T&B are all about using models \u8220\'93distilled from literary fiction, film and theater\u8221\'94, like Loyall.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 So, autocosmic approach - autocosmics, the totality of imagination, relies on there being something to augment - not just a surface representation, to be computed elsewhere, but something inherent within the world (which we might misunderstand, change or interpret differently, but it is still there) - how can we author this, rather than relying on meaning arising from the glitches? Games use autocosmics all the time, but in a way to create very simplistic characters (mainly based on movement) or for other, less character-based things. They then rely on the resonance techniques of books and films to provide the more "advanced" characterisations, layered into the system itself, or clumsily on top. Look more broadly at the autocosmic, b/c it is closer to real life - not books or films, not merely the "simulation run on the mind", but the simulation run on the computer as well - not one, or the other, but both. My character is limited in many ways (list them) but it is an artistic response to this need to focus on a balance of systemic integrity, a coherence truth within the system, and an imaginative augmentation. It compares and contrasts these techniques. It is not a solution to this issue, but a creative response to it.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}\f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Sometimes offloading the }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 wrong things }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 onto the imagination, and systematising the wrong things as well. Sticking with game structures not always a good idea. This idea of \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91not hiding anything\u8217\'92 from the player - this is wrong-headed. A system does need to hide things, they do need to work it out - still needs to be a coherence truth. this is the unique promise. PARRY had a }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 "rudimentary model of an inner life". }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 More distinctive is what Bungie say about their AI.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs24\b1\i0	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Autocosmics, }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 as a concept, can help us get this balance right again between resonance and systemics.. About understanding imagination as how we see and process the entire world, not divided between real and fictional.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls3\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 Waiting In The Sky - creating your own associations from random patterns. }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Henry Jenkins agrees not to rely too heavily on the narrative form, and not too heavily on mechanics. Other forms are very different. Autocosmics seem to represent game narratives most closely, so focus on that.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch \ls5\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  Autocosmics is about thinking about narrative, and character, more generally - more contiguous with life. Computational art is more like life - about creating an environment in which narrative can take place. More like our evolutionary roots. The Longest Night - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93we\u8217\'92re pattern finders! Find some patterns!\u8221\'94 Koster talks about this, who else? S+Z's semotic approach to games - systematising markers to make meaning - interpreted by audience. Drawing on Saussure\u8217\'92s work. Lucas and Licinio\u8217\'92s \u8220\'93sensemaking\u8221\'94. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 Lend themselves really well to interpretation - "partly told without words" - more like a real system, like the real world (Solutions). (Clark) - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Perceiving stories is part of how we understand our world. Just as we can see patterns in the arrangement of shapes and forms\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 animals in the clouds or a face in the knots of a tree\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 we make stories out of things that happen around us. We impose a pattern, a meaningful sequence, on a set of events, and a story emerges. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93This, then, is one of the most basic ways in which videogames speak to us as the real world does, directly to the visceral, animal brain\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  even as they tease the higher imagination by building a universe that could never exist\u8221\'94. Videogames }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93continuous wiith real life in a way that is instrumental.\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 (Keogh) - He calls games the aesthetic form of everyday life - links to autocosmics.Manovich - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93book and computer interfaces \u8220\'93fundamentally different and ultimately incompatible approaches\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls4\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Gives us leave to look away from the other arts towards those arenas in which imagination in general matters. Broaden our sources of inspiration. Somewhere in between this idea of "story as exertion" and "story as intermission". \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93I freely embrace approaches from any ideology or combination of ideologies that allows the best progress toward believable Agents\u8221\'94. McCorduck - poetry is individual view (romantic), science is universal view (pragamtic) - \u8220\'93neither view obviates the other\u8221\'94 - \u8220\'93when you start making things outside of the convention of what is normal or good or "best practices", you're also shedding some of the baggage that comes with the concept of what a game "should" be.\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 "it is critical that games be placed in context with the rest of human endeavor so that game designers can feel comfortable venutring outside their field in search of innovative ideas"}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch \ls4\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Specifically a methodology for authors wishing to say something - an }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 authored approach (look at the title). }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 -}{\f3\fs24\b0\i1  \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93Players want to have the experience that a worthy game intends\u8221\'94, \u8220\'93focus on player takeaways and outcomes often outweighs consideration for the artists intent\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (Dan Solberg). Resonance is not about slavish devotion to what you think your audience wants. Dispense with or at least significantly reframe the author\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s role as creator of content - celia pearce - disagree - still the author, still part of it, need to author it. "know thy user" - the hci mantra (in interaction design book) Hansen 1971 - we are interested in this in a way, but more about creating art for ourselves - this is the thing with resonance - more about the human. "user experience... has become the central concern of interaction design" - "user experience" instead of "illusion". A narrative that is evaluated, like anyuthing else. "one cannot design a user experience, only design for a user experience". Less about the "corect" user experience (as in product design) and more about an "interesting" user experience (as in art). A methodology where \u8220\'93design and code\u8221\'94 (Griesmer) overlap - theory and practicality - specific approaches and general metaphors. Still authored story, traditional elements and assets, not entirely \u8220\'93player-driven\u8221\'94. Aesthetics are still important (David O\u8217\'92Reailly), but away from \u8220\'93surface style\u8221\'94 to how the assets work together as a system of meaning. Also interested in "authorial affordance" - how the system allows for artistic expression by the artist 'under the hood'. The story of it as an object MADE BY SOMEONE is important. Leigh Alexander - bring back linear, written narratives -> writers need to be part of design team. \u8220\'93Participation in an immersive environment has to be carefully structured and constrained.\u8221\'94 They say that the issue of agent dynamism has to come from method learning rather than hand-coded knowledge engineering. \u8220\'93Refusal to author results in\u8230\'85banality\u8221\'94 - Expressing a detailed interactive character\u8217\'92s behavior in Hap is an artistic expression just as painting or animation is. - Loyall}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Agree with Laurel that should work with a representation of internal system, not directly - but how should that representation look?}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The Formalists - interested in the system, the 'text'. Big links in computational narratology.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Currently in art practice don't care about tech/system - "The machine itself is considered a hack, an accidental byproduct of the artist's engagement with the concept of the piece. In the documentation of electronic media works, the internal structure of the machine is almost systematically effaced." - is this still true? Hiding gaps, the simplicity of it, maybe, or deliberately mystifying the machine underneath. Idon't want to do this either}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Expressive AI does sit somewhere in the middle. using interaction to express a system.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 "interaction design than appearance design to foster the social human\endash agent relation\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Kismet by Brazeal - this sort of socially situated, learning robot - a big project - learn from people, draw people in - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93\u8220\'93Kismet is a social robot designed to socially interact with humans\u8221\'94 - good mix of human and performance, looking outside the box.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Best games are the ones that tightly marry their narrative (if they have one) to play in order to make both meaningful.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Simulations must be reducible to maths - this does present a challenge.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93The meaningful play that you provide for your players emerges from the designed system of a game - and how that game interacts with larger social and cultural systems.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 "the emotional power of video games draws heavily on the computer power with that supports a simulated world and a meditative environment."}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93You do get quite attached to them, despite the limited interactions you have with them\u8221\'94.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Literary works, according to this}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 model,resemblemachines: theyaretheresultofaninten-}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 tional human activity in which a specific skill transforms}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 rawmaterialintoacomplexmechanismsuitableforapar-}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ticular purpose\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (Steiner, \u8220\'93Russian Formalism\u8221\'94 18)}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Through observation of a complex system, stop iconifying.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 We are fighting against autocosmics, to a certain extent. We over-simplify because of twitch responses of people.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Better graophics, better plots, stories, sound effects, music etc. but not better systems. Not just better systems for char, but better resonance}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Observabilirt\u8221\'94 - but black boxes are also important.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Honesty\u8221\'94 in how a system works - not necessarily, a system keeping its secrets\u8230\'85}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 "cultural layer" (what is represented) and the "computer layer" (the raw data)}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 HCI balances "between the two poles of computer logic and human logic" - perception, cognition, causality and motivation.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 NWF - surface between data/processes and audience. Don't want to obscure systems complete (Talespin Effect)}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 "to think about the relationship between the audience's experience and the system's internal operations"}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  intrinsic or extrinsic meaning.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Rules are merely means for creating play\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Digitsal games are better at imperfect info as can manipulate lots of info \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93behind scene\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 How much info is know to player (perfect vs. Imperfect) - all info gains value from its relationship with others. (info ecosystem).}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0 4 - Specific Approaches In masterbeast}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls6\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 I think that I have made a more resonant character using this approach, and more resonant characters. I have tried to think about my Project as a whole from this autocosmic perspective. It both comments upon the difficulties that I have already mentioned in its fiction, and tried to explore autocosmic methods of developing characters. }
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls6\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Lots of different techniques - }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 examples? }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - but for this essay I want to focus on one, important and emblematic one- one which tries to look at the paradigms we have in place already as a way to drive systemic and resonant character autocosmically.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Devising architectures and algorithms that create rich behavior supporting player projection is one of the fundamental goals of game AI.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The problem with technological fetishism - this is why IO am using an entry-level tool, with many limitations/problems - require creative solving.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Fundamentally, this is about constructing space for narrative - usually geographic space. END.}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 "games do need to illuminate aspects of ourselves we did not understand fully.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 "the point at whcich our game puzzles approach the complexity of the puzzles in other art forms is the point at which the game art form becomes mature."}
\par\pard\plain \tx960\tx1440\li720\fi-720\ri-998\ql\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 "Video games don\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t have a great record with relationships"}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 being "immersed in meaning", as well as immersed in the representation. This is important, autocosmics.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 Weiz - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93respect, understanding and love are not technical problems\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\ri-998\sa160\sb160\ql\ltrch\loch {\f4\fs24\b0\i0\cf1  \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u8220\'93the interface becomes the arena for the performance of some task in which both human and computer have a role\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f4\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 Jenova Chen - "life is relevant for all artists" Jenova Chen }
\par\plain {\f4\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 "Most designers, operate largely by intuition and instinct."}
\par\plain {\f4\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 A game is a \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u8220\'93system fo meaning\u8221\'94 - related to me wanting to make signs all the ay down, even to those parts that the public won\u8217\'92t see, because I am a human being and it helps me.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f4\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 Bickmore and Pickard - Come back to them later when they say that human expectation in a virtual agent is so high, it must be tempered to a certain degree - controlled by the author and context of the work (in chapter 2).}
\par\plain {\f4\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 Main source for autocosmics are for simplistic things - I.e. movement}
\par\plain {\f4\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 Expressive AI looks at authorship. This is important. AI becomes "an artiface built by authors in order to communicate a constellation of ideas and experiences to an audience"}
\par\plain {\f4\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 Always designed by hand iteratively, by human beings. She is all over hand-authoring.}
\par\plain {\f4\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 A + C  - Points out that movement helps define characters in the most basic way}
\par\plain {\f4\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 NWF - the systems are important, not just surface - "a... means of expression for authors"}
\par\plain {\f4\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 "games as systems of representation"}
\par\plain {\f4\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 An artist engaging in expressive AI practice will be able to build works with a depth, a richness, a sophistication that can't be achieved without this simultaneous focus on meaning making and machine structure. }
\par\plain {\f4\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 Expressive AI practitioners think explicitly about how to provide the}
\par\plain {\f4\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 affordances supporting the narration of system behavior"}
\par\plain {\f4\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 Miranda July - \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u8220\'93we watched this technology being invented and we fee like we should be behind the curtain and there should be no mystery.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f4\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u8220\'93opaque incoherence with no}
\par\plain {\f4\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 determinable relationship between interaction and the}
\par\plain {\f4\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 response of the art work\loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f4\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 Computers need rules that are an \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u8220\'93interpretation of the world\u8221\'94, not other media.}
\par\plain {\f4\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 "A BLEND OF HUMAN AND COMPUTER MEANINGS"}
\par\plain {\f4\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 Celia Pearce - Disagree with her about authorial control - authorial control comes from how the systems are framed to you. You are in charge of what is included in the world (partiality)}
\par\plain {\f4\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 Not down ai route - I\loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u8217\'92m an artist - I cannot do that. It cannot just be an engineering issue.}
\par\plain {\f4\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 More autocosmics, but better designed (if less complex) systems - their WORKINGS given more context, more exploration of TYPES of systems, what systems can mean. Using the strengths of games to make characters. Where do we place the boundaries of simulation?}
\par\plain {\f4\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u8220\'93Creating meaningful experiences means understanding the ways a game\u8217\'92s formal system transforms into an experiential one\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f4\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 A balance of emergence and authored - neither one is better (S+Z) - }
\par\plain {\f4\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 the ultimate value of literature lying in how it explores character and characters (Harvey, 1965). }
\par\plain {\f4\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 oatley - Just as computer simulations can help us get to grips with complex problems such as flying a plane or forecasting the weather, so novels, stories and dramas can help us understand the complexities of social life.\loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u8221\'94 - can games do this as well?}
\par\plain {\f4\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 Player stories on the other hand emerge from less moderated game play. They occur when the designer has no strict events for the player to observe in mind and instead allows her to explore a system that, although providing concrete challenges and goals, is less concerned with enforcing rules as to how the events occurring in it should be perceived.}
\par\plain {\f4\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 "the intimate machine"}
\par\plain {\f4\fs24\b0\i0\cf1  \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u8216\'91close encounters of the third kind\u8217\'92 \endash  that is, social encounters with artificial}
\par\plain {\f4\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 systems.}
\par\plain {\f4\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 powerful player stories form from the delicate balance of players predictic the outcome of their action and being surprised by the right combination of partially random factors.}
\par\plain {\f4\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 "game systems aren't really suited to the kind of monologue and deep introspection that prose offered to a writer like Marcel Proust. Instead, games tend to opt for symbolism: embodying whole themes or morals through motifs, set pieces, mechanics and environmental storytelling"}
\par\plain \f4\fs24\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f4\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 Writing @is the work of art nearest to life itself" - really, Thoreau}
\par\plain {\f4\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 - We will need, in our simulations, to choose narrow and deep - different focuses from novels.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0
\par\plain \f3\fs24\b0\i1
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 }
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ri0\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1}