{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 ArialMT;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Georgia-Bold;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Georgia-Italic;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Georgia;}{\f4\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable
{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f2\fs22\b0\i1\cf1\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1 Conclusion}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b1\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i1\cf1 No precis needed.}
\par\plain \f2\fs22\b0\i1\cf1
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i1\cf1 NEED THESIS FIGS}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b1\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b1\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1 Paragraph 1}{\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1  - Pulling it back to Anne: a vignette of the moor - as a characterised place, patrolled by Gravitas. The fate of Anne: driven from her home, the actions of nature have overcome her. The role of women once they have had children - a loss of agency, a fallback into the old superstitions, the old world. The story of her leaving.The new world that she dreamed of (that she would never get) rapidly recedes. Her rituals have not helped her. GRAVITAS, the character, has got her. }
\par\plain \f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain \f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 The beest is an afterthought: why worry about something that is not alive. Except it is, irrevocably, alive. It is for the user, the subscryber, to carry on: to discover its life, what it says about Anne and itself - the traumas inflicted, the pathological relationship that is a revelation of her personal response to a particular age. She worked it so hard it was amputated below the \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8216\'91waist\u8217\'92 - can die. It confuses Anne and the subscryber - carries on doing rituals. Gets more and more machinelike - hints of its personality coming through. It as the moor, as an environment to traverse, finding buried hints of Anne\u8217\'92s work. Reflects the topology of her mind - the moor and her past reflected. It reflects her pathologies - examples from its body. It was not the beast she wanted it to be - it is most definitely a character, one that is revealed through environmental techniques. Where are the boundaries of character in masterbeast? How she 'Views' things is always contingent.}
\par\plain \f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b1\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b1\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1 Paragraph 2}{\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1  - A summary of the argument that I have led through. }
\par\plain \f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\fi720\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs22\b0\i1\cf1 Problem: }{\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 A specific problem of character (creating computational characters that are both computational and resonant: that start to overcome those problems already presented. Traditional methods are struggling. An issue of }{\f2\fs22\b0\i1\cf1 balance}{\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 . The centrality of computation - moving away from illusionist models of interactivity towards an engagement with that illusive objective of comp-art - making the comp itself meaningful. strong AI is not the general pursuit of artists. Why this problem at all? Why not lesser characters in games? Re-emphasise argument from chapter 2.1.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i1\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i1\cf1 Approach}{\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 : A reconceptualisation of the problem of character, resonance etc. Itself as problem of the way that the human mind/body engages with narrative actions. A way to look more broadly at the problem with conceptual and practical foundation; beyond strict aesthetic models.. }{\f3\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1 Autocosmic}{\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1  is a postclassical amalgamation of theoretical positions applied to a practical methodology/a way to summarise multiple positions that privilege imagination/what David Herman calls 'the nexus of narrative and mind'. Not a new aesthetic theory, but a unique drawing-together. Drawing on lots of different things (from across thesis) and applied to a specific type of art: narrative computational art. }{\f3\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1 Autocosmics}{\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1  gives the artist a consistent and theoretically sound way to look beyond their discipline not just in terms of subject matter - but to reinvent the methods of production in their artform itself. A }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0\cf1 general}{\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1  approach to this }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0\cf1 specific }{\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 problem. It is \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8216\'91prescriptive\u8217\'92 in Koenitz\u8217\'92s ontology - it says how we might do things. Jocelyn Spence on pg.14 - talk about boundaries betwen art and life (for conc) - between belief and non-belief. Bogost 2009 points out the thinness between aesthetic distance and immersion - that thinness, and muddling, or real and irreal is important to engaging with the work.Builds on LOTS of people saying divides between real and imagined, fact and fiction, believed and not believed, are very thin/contingent. Models outside the arts of reception/engagement are worthwhile models for inside as well.  "From birth, therefore, the human being is concerned with the problem of the relationship between what is objectively perceived and what is subjectively conceived\u8221\'94. Deleuze and Guattari use the terms "rhizome" and "rhizomatic" to describe theory and research that allows for multiple, non-hierarchical entry and exit points in data representation and interpretation. My work. \u8220\'93ceaselessly established connections between semiotic chains, organizations of power, and circumstances relative to the arts, sciences, and social struggles.\u8221\'94  talking about the mutational, parasitic nature of posthumanist thought - resists hegemony, one way of thinking - always changing, always crossing borders. Really, the autocosmic is an invective TO cross borders, and nothing else. 'Developments in aesthetic appreciation that extend to ordinary life and activity'. Mention Berleant, and how autocosmics builds on his ideas.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i1\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i1\cf1 My Work:}{\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1  Applying one particular autocosmic lens to the problem: looking for methodologies for character development and reception beyond traditional models.Redefine what characters are by looking at models of \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8216\'91personable systems\u8217\'92 outside of traditional models. Using the history of human beings engagement with enviro-as-personified to create an autocosmic approach that suits the enviro-centric nature of comp narratives: character-as-environment. Treat comp chars as environments to traverse, to work, to explore and uncover. A new metaphor for using existing technical approaches to frame what is being built, on an artistic level, differently . }
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b1\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1 Paragraph 3}{\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1  - Conclusions and strengths}
\par\plain \f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain \f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 1. }{\f2\fs22\b0\i1\cf1 General conclusions:}{\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1  A fascinating exploration of a particular problem, exciting direction and successful artistic project. It was a chance to challenge myself, to think more broadly about this task at hand (again a quick history of my practice) - move my practice in a new direction. Learnt a lot as a programmer, a narrative artist and a theorist. Definitely a unique contribution to knowledge.}
\par\plain \f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 2.}{\f2\fs22\b0\i1\cf1  Looking at the objectives I set myself in 1.3: have I reached them? }{\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Is it resonant? "On the other side, the concept of dramatically or narratively interesting is more problematic. In general, there is a large variety of criteria to qualify a narrative or drama as interesting: causality, unity of action, suspense, confict, etc. Measuring the quality of the narrative experience according to such criteria is always sensitive because no consensus exists regarding which criteria are necessary and suffcient to state that a narrative is an interesting narrative. " Refer to the MWM study.  roth and koenitz talking about user research - both quantitative and qualitative. Bottom-up and top-down. A character that delighted people, that was seen as complex and alive, but which resonated through its computation - about the various themes of the work. Value as an interpretation tool in Museums. Does it strike the comp/res balance? }
\par\plain {\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Can be used for interpretation, not just to solve a fuzzy artistic problem: "interpretation research suggests that providing enjoyable, satisfying, and engaging experiences lays a firm foundation for promoting environmental attitudes and improving the likelihood that visitors will adopt pro-environmental behaviors (Farmer, Knapp, & Benton, 2007; Powell & Ham, 2008)" - "a successful interpretation should also enable the visitors to make their own constructions of the past." - Kidd 2015 - the use of empathy and affective turn in museums. The effects of experience-taking can be harnessed and directed toward such positive ends as increasing civic engagement and reducing prejudice and stereotyping. \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93 - 'IDN' for change - talking about 'serious games' - not just about entertainment. Importance of for its multiple perspectives, seeing consequences of actions etc. He says that some topics require it. "attention and satisfaction are positively related to immersion design features in exhibits. Both visitor stay-time and enjoyment were increased through immersion exhibits (Shettel-Neuber, 1988; Wineman, Piper, & Maple, 1996). Immersion exhibits seem to enhance learning and pleasure (Bitgood et al., 1990; Harvey, Loomis, Bell, & Marino, 1998; Ogden, Linburg, & Maple, 1993)." - Tavernise and Bertacchini - "the attention to numbers and letters in a universe as flat as the page of a book represses the natural human skill of 3D thinking" - emotions created to promote political and social change. (cog sci in env crit) - Copplestone points out that game desiners see "the past as systems, interactions, agency and multilinear narratives" - whereas historians see it as linear narratives. - "Nature centers, museums, zoos, and other exhibit-based institutions need to sustain or increase visitation for economic viability." (pennisi et al) - \u8220\'93video games is a kind of literacy. Not the literacy that helps us read books or write term papers, but the kind of literacy that helps us make or critique the systems we live in\u8221\'94 - Copplestone - "exploring and playing with ideology the point of the rhetoric, rather than a product of it." - 'Interact' - "Storytelling and narration have played a significant role in Holocaust education" - Copplestone - "the media forms we have been using and the tools we have created for capturing and communicating the past have often required remediation and reduction into forms whose internal affordances do not necessarily natively support these outcomes." - 'important to have an experience rather than understand a set of ideas efficiently' - says that games/systems are useful for this as well. "t makes the difference between a mere virtual repository of digitalized cultural artefacts and an authentic, immersive virtual experience." Unexpected responses coming out of my studies\u8230\'85 Janet Murray - do I have \u8220\'93dramatic agency through expressive enactment\u8221\'94?}
\par\plain \f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 3.}{\f2\fs22\b0\i1\cf1  Might help more broadly. }{\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "widely accepted, generalized conventions are still elusive" (as to how to do IDN). Perhaps this will help. Kpoenitz already identifies it. \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8216\'91Char-as-enviro\u8217\'92 is just one particular approach. koenitz sees games as a narrative avant-garde. It doesn't compare well to other forms. They are not the only model. Therefore autocosmics will help as it does not privilege any model: it is a stance, in Dennett\u8217\'92s sense. Not meaning it to be the way IDN should be done. Points the way to a deep interdisciplinarity. Looking further afield in esoteric places certainly was refreshing, helped me find a new approach. A new way to think about characterisation, a new way to think about personhood, building on work in other fields. "a narrative does not have to have humans in it - just persons" - informs and changes the ancient narrative compulsion in humans in new ways."new \u8216\'91strange\u8217\'92 narratives which challenge human exceptionalism\u8221\'94 -  "the humanoid robot has been described as \u8220\'93the Grail\u8221\'94 of robotics and the pursuit of this goal leads some people to create robots that appear almost indistinguishable from humans" - not working. The "overtly other" - perhaps this is the best way to go, rather than trying to pursue human commonality.Character as environment is somewhere between a metaphor and a mimetic representation of a person. And systemic. Expand, rather than flatten, the ontology. Not sure I advocate getting rid of the hierachy. "an untapped opportunity for the design and analysis of IDNs" - Ryan, Foote, and Azaryahu remind their readers that a geographic approach to narratology encourages \u8220\'93convergence,\u8221\'94 or a unique interdisciplinary approach to the human spatial experience.  As Penny notes, the goal of the artist is more often not to generalise, but rather to provide a specific solution that works within a particular context (25).. Philsoophy can \u8220\'93produce new ways of looking at things, ways of thinking about things, ways of framing the questions, ways of seeing what is important and why.\u8221\'94  -  One of Bogost\u8217\'92s \u8216\'91"philosophical objects". - "the coming together of hardware, flesh and audiovisuals" (it was this, as well as an art project). The role of the systemic. "formal systems for describing communicative activities" - Marenko\u8217\'92s new animism (in tech) - the \u8220\'93enchantment of technology\u8221\'94 (Gell, 1992) - \u8220\'93simultaneous animate and inanimate\u8221\'94 - humans using autocosmics in combination with systemic tech, "inorganic vitalism" - \u8220\'93full of things that react, respond, and modify themselves according to algorithmic modulations\u8221\'94.}
\par\plain \f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 SEE APPENDIX 5}
\par\plain \f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b1\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1 Paragraph 4}{\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1  - Weaknesses}
\par\plain \f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\ri-1332\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0\cf1 PROBLEM:}{\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1  Is autocosmics a redundant term? Isn\loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8217\'92t it just another term for the postclassical, postmodern \u8216\'91complication\u8217\'92 of traditional disciplines, 'active involvement in the appreciative process' . Part of the same movement that modern art came from (Magritte, questions the boundaries between reality and art, objet trouve, surrealists using freudian psychoanalysis,  Particularly Duchamp, and the \u8216\'91Domain Of Images\u8217\'92, pop art (elevating things beyond traditional aesthetics), \u8220\'93event art\u8221\'94, Morris thinks, a return to ritualistic roots, "the artefact was no more", "joyfully destroying traditional art" ) - BUT was often conceptual rather than narrative, and not really methodological. 'traditional separation' between art and life had been breached - audiences now had to be involved in art's consturction, not just contemplate it. This is different from autocosmics.What distinguishes autocosmics from that far more general movement? It is part of it, to be sure \endash  a muddying of aesthetic traditions. It doesn\u8217\'92t have the same political angle (I\u8217\'92ve mentioned this). Perhaps I don\u8217\'92t need it \endash  though I think it is different from Duchamp\u8217\'92s etc. Viewpoint which tried to bring art into everyday life. It is not concerned with removing fictionality, but rather A WAY OF MAKING REGULAR ART. Relies on cognitive science a lot more, recent discoveries. Autocosmics takes these findings and applies them to the practice of artmaking. Ppl may have understood this for some time, but it is formalised now. To do with how we RESPOND to the world and to art. Artists can say \u8216\'91there are utilities in taking lessons from how ppl engage with the real world, not to make a political point necessarily, but to make better (more resonant) art.\u8217\'92 Particularl in compart. New terms such as \u8216\'91autocosmic\u8217\'92 and \u8216\'91resonance\u8217\'92 are problematic - fudging together several disciplines. "the highly specific nature of particular projects often make it difficult to identify generalizable conventions." - I don't give generalizable conventions, nor do I think they exist, necessarily. Ryan says that hard cognitive science isn't yet teaching us that much about the state inside the brain during reading - very murky, or just confirming what we already knew. We don't yet know the true 'science', at neuron-level, of what is happening. Limits of cognitive narratology. Not about exploring the brain - just pointing to another way to think of its complexity. Not about prioritising the brain, either (Ryan) - "for many researchers a story can be a representation that never leave the mind of the subject" - Caracciolo - "Neuroscience is still in its infancy" - a methodology rather than a grand theory. Not interested in what narrative is, but what narrative practise entails - it goes beyond traditional, 'tellable' narrative structures that Ryan loves. "dominant models that marginalize knowledge of alternatives ". "a considerable risk of miscommunication" between these fields. (Koenitz). Marie-Laure Ryan - "problematic relation" between narratology and cognitive science. "when professional readers of literature get excited about certain ideas, they will usually find what they are looking for, and texts will offer little resistance" - weakness of autocosmics. Definition of narrative not important. Bogost - "are they really stories, when they are really environments?" - A more inclusive model of narrative - and a broader conception of narrativity\u8221\'94. Frameworks can be 'prescriptive' (do it this way) or 'desriptive (it is done this way). Which am I? (Koenitz). "being on the margins in relation to other, more established traditions and disciplines" "In other words, the goal is to create a kind of boundary object [7] that might sit at the intersection of HCI and theater and performance studies." - Like caraciolo - not trying to make a 'systematic' theory of narrative. - As with caraciolo - yes, a metaphor, but one that has some grounding in challenging dualism. "transposing the concept of narrative to other fields of study without diluting its terminological precision" - Agree with machidon that it needs "a synergy of efforts" - Calleja (2013) - if everything is narrative, nothing is (Koenitz reiterates this point in entry) - BUT REMEMBER I AM LESS INTERESTED IN DEFINITIONS OF NARRATIVE - NARRATIVITY IS FINE. I don't care about being called a 'storyteller' - the 'protostory' in the system. Maybe I am closer to Frasca's definition of simulation, rather than 'narrative' - but the division of the terms seem unnecessary when oriented to postclassical communication/experiential/phenomenological auspices. The structure of the prompting experience matters less. Ryan thinks cognitive narratology will be more interested on the level of neurons. What Ryan calls the "pragmatics" of narrative - how narrative is used. Only "recently discovered". But then, in his 'Carpentry', he sees that metaphors can be productive without being the thing themself. Mine is a methodological metaphor - a carpentry in the truest sense. What is the resolution of Bogost's 'units'? The scale of a character? - Koenitz - "Authors of traditional forms of narrative can rely on a rich body of design conventions for structuring and presenting narrative material" - "games barely have a few decades of experimentation under their belt " Maybe, to tell good interactive stories, we need to be LESS interested in formal narrative - help us reconfigure what narrative is. In conclusion - my approach is Formalist, in a way (though very unprescriptive) - KEogh wouldn't like it. The formal issues need to be addressed because they are fundamental to the struggle. "while AI models tend to be formal descriptions of concrete technical implementations, most narratological frameworks in the humanities are abstract, aiming to identify the essence of narrative, rather than any particular case." " it is doubtful that there is one component of the mind that can satisfy all the various roles attributed to imagination (Kind 2013)". The standford imagination entry shows that there are just too many ways to look at imagination. I'm not interested in the taxonomies? The taxonomies are less important to me. even the ones that try to "carve imaginings at their joints" - they are matters of degree. "Quarantining gives way to contagion when imagined content ends up playing a direct role in actual attitudes and behavior (see also Gendler 2008a, 2008b)". The stuff from 3.2 about belief - do we need a new term? (from stanford philosophy imagination article) Well, possibly not. Overly \u8216\'91.simplistic - challenge of character has already been approached, just not \u8216\'91perfectly\u8217\'92. " Doggett and Egan argue that during immersive episodes, pretense behaviors can be directly motivated by imagination. In response to these challenges, philosophers typically accept that imagination can have a guidance or stage-setting role in motivating behaviors, but reject that it directly outputs to action-generation system (Van Leeuwen 2009; O\u8217\'92Brien 2005; Funkhouser & Spaulding 2009; Everson 2007; Kind 2011; Currie & Ravenscroft 2002)." Have I focussed too much on delineated autocosmics, and not enough on my methodology? Perhaps.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0\cf1 PROBLEM}{\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 : Not a very efficient way to go about building a new approach to AI. Steep learning curve, I was \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8216\'91reinventing the wheel a lot\u8217\'92, a lot of exploration and learning of ideas that are pretty standard in  CS. I had to build so much \u8216\'91groundwork\u8217\'92 - buil;ding AI and animation systems from scratch. Perhaps should have used off-the-shelf methods. But I came to this as an artist approaching these ideas, working them through - helped me see a new approach. I needed to go through this. And also gain the skills and literacy that would allow me to try things differently. Waylaid by personal challenge to go graphical. Felt more like puppeteering sometimes. Developing theories as making it - higgeldy piggeldy - could benefit from starting over again. But this is always the way - I was striking off in a new direction. Very \u8216\'91organic\u8217\'92 and exploratory - no fixed idea from the start. This was sometimes a problem - wasted time on experiments. Didn't start off that way \endash  how related to original plan. Autocosmics was evolving as I made it, as well. Koenitz' ASAPS work - not necessarily a good idea to build your own tools, as I did? Not sure it is a good idea to formalise creative process - he talks about "need for experimentation" - Ben Gammon - using text in interactive exhibits not good - good to give them before or after?Certainly overambitious. Too many features, already massively cut down, too many routes into AI, too many tempting problems. An ongoing issue for me. Trimmed and cut - part of the problem of it being a multi-year project. Something to watch in future work, and set myself boundaries. Balancing the complexity of the system - "undesirable" emergence arising from overly complex systems (Harvey Smith, 3002, in Tronstad). Emergence and technical complexity are not naturally better. Weaknesses of systemic approach: "ambivalent appropriation of cybernetics by theorists ever since speak to the difficulty\hich\f3 \emdash \loch\f3  and likely impossibility\hich\f3 \emdash \loch\f3  of reconciling humans, animals, machines, and societies into a consistent, coherent, or unified intellectual program." - can't use it for everything. All the prototypes I made - crying/liquid engine, the prototype of the moleherd. Vocal engine etc. Physics-based interaction (what other stuff from prototypes?) artificiality of the signup process.Why did I make it installation art? If I\u8217\'92d had time, more prototyping. Problems with MR. Difficult to use touchscreen/voice activation.}{\f1\fs22\b1\i0\cf1  }{\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Exhibition problems - timespan, attention span, access - came from inexperience - needs more research. Can people come back to see it? This is part of my new challenges - moving into digital heritage and mixed reality exhibitions. The dynamic is a bit awkward - have to come back and see it. Is it OK for people to get only a tiny sliver of it - for the group to have the entire experience, even if the individual doesn\loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8217\'92t have acess to it? THis is an interesting idea. Too much writing in HK - too complex a story. Too much to read up front? Difficulty of returning to/engaging with installation experience , the relatively short and shallow audience engagement with sited digital heritage interpretation (Haywood and Cairns). To get the benefits of the original plan without worrying about adapting for individual machines. Controlling hardware. Hugely technically challenging - learning a huge amount in a short amount of time. A personal challenge to use new tech. - a mess of systems barely held together - an experiment. GM starting to struggle with the amount of code. doing it all myself. still lots of bugs. Exhibiting difficult games - problems with showing, with audience expectation, with how to overcome biases as to what a digital experience should be like. - "The setting and context has to be differentiated. " - "Create a space that encourages respect" - I think I did this. - "Putting a game in a tent, creating its own distinct space" - overlapping with exhibition design. "We can learn from other fields" - "it can be a real challenge to make space for games that require a long time to come to terms with" - "create a distinct, darker, private-feeling area" - Talking about posture. Light levels. "Putting games in a room with books and pictures and other static objects, to encourage a different mode of looking" - "Creating a space very separate from the world at large, that takes effort to get to, with a longer duration that encourages attention to the work and discussion between visitors" - Benford's draws on the challenges of using technology for narrative or immersive experiences. Different levels of engagement with project. Necessarily a problem? }{\f0\fs20\b0\i0\cf1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Hidden influences (e.g. internal state) is an obstacle for making fun AI\u8221\'94 - therefore make hidden influences uncoverable - like caves beneath a landscape. But cannot \u8216\'91vivisect\u8217\'92 a character too much. Creature is an opaque system - patterns are not necessarily divinable, or are divinable in different ways, from how they are laid out explicitly in book - }{\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 It\loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8217\'92s not human? Really, that\u8217\'92s the real goal - resonant computational characters where the computation goes into \u8216\'91human\u8217\'92 traits. I agree that in a way I have dodged the question - though most sensible practitioners do this, trying to compute human-adjacent elements of narratives. Also the post-humanism argument - we are changing what we think of as a character, as a person. I wanted to see if there was another approach to the classical agent model, rather than a mere proxy. "We see the human mind as the only one worth emulating"}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b1\i0\cf1 PROBLEM:}{\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1  My studies of how I met my objectives are limited. Unable to do full study with finished product due to time constraints. In Ryan\loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8217\'92s terms, this thesis is more speculative than experimental. This is often seen as a problem.  Caraciolo, on embodiement, wants to look at empirical research as further work.  Not able to test the full suite (HK + MB) until after I had written my thesis. BUT the MWM study did include the HK interactive dynamic, much of the creature\u8217\'92s personality: even without the full experience had the desired response. However might the full experience complicate people\u8217\'92s responses? Remains to be seen. Needs more testing. Me as my own audience - having a response to the creature during testing, explored in 3.4. Also, don\u8217\'92t always need to play the thing: (Brenda Romero, in Mattie Brice). Ryan - difference between narratology and cognitive science - one is experimental, one is not - mine has not been that experimental - some user studies - perhaps need to go further - but is that my interest as an artist? . Ryan doesn't think it is a good idea to do lots of experiments. Ryan says 'bottom-up approaches based on self-examination' when it comes to defining narrative/character. Will probably do more studies afterwards (see below). Didn\u8217\'92t get to test how the subtleties in its expressions, the tiny hints of its body, can be guided by the HK.}
\par\plain \f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\ltrch\loch \f1\fs22\b1\i0\cf1
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0\cf1 PROBLEM:}{\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1  Virtual environments, while perhaps better examples of computational resonance than computational characters, are not perfect, and still. Bogost\loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8217\'92s \u8216\'91Potemkin Villages\u8217\'92. "For what it is, Andromeda was brilliant pulpy fun. But it seems to be the latest in a line of recent games that struggle to give meaning to the vastness of their open spaces." My Skyrim field study revealed plenty that was less than - quotes from my diary - \u8220\'93 The Radiant AI is easy to interrogate into inadequacy - watching a deer on the shoreline near Riverwood, I started to see the rough edges of its animation, the planar weirdness of its stance, the repetition.\u8221\'94 \u8220\'93Shallow authorship\u8221\'94 of the world. Library of Babel (a philosophical absurdity), Elite: Dangerous, No Man\u8217\'92s Sky. Depth as well as breadth. \u8220\'9310,000 bowls of oatmeal problem\u8221\'94 by Kate Compton. Tanya X. Short\u8217\'92s search for \u8216\'91meaning\u8217\'92 in procedurality. Manovich - "computer spaces have a long way to go".  \u8220\'93The games that employ animals as characters, it might be said, are employing them in a shallow manner; as leitmotifs rather than as individuals, and with little cognitive depth beyond that which suits that imperative of the limited design.\u8221\'94 But my approach is also a way to improve videogame environements. It\u8217\'92s a new way to think, see and do. " buildings become glorified cardboard cut outs rather than locations to explore". This idea he puts forward that virtual space is often not space-as-a-medium, not "systemic space" and interrelational, but just separate things arranged near each other, unrelated - games don't do space REALLY REALLY well - autocosmics will be useful not just for character-building, but spacebuilding as well (in conclusion) - away from \u8216\'91timeless\u8217\'92 ideals of landscape (Garrard)). "What artistic and theoretical tradtions can the designers of navigable spaces draw upon to make them more interesting?" - painting, architecture and CHARACTER DESIGN - Patrick Lindsey #2 (Immersion Fallacy - spaces in games aren't always the best - "The city is populated, but not alive" - architecutre makes no sense, b/c of lack of time to think about how a city works, or too large a scale. "a lack of believability and consistency\u8221\'94 - ---Last Seed, 18th, 4E 201-\hich\f3 \emdash \loch\f3  The wolf kills the deer, but does not stop to eat it; it has fulfilled its purpose. It is only meant as wallpaper to the human (or near-human) activity. For him (bogost) in alien phenomenology, in order to understand how things work must go beyond language - build systems. - Often \u8220\'93little mor than cardboard cutouts\u8221\'94 (Inderwildli) - the cities are bad because cities are LANDSCAPES DEFINED BY CHARACTER. - "However, they are often used uncritically: space is just a container for something else, whether as a setting for a story or as a field for gameplay. " Champion identifies similar problems in 'Cultural Turing Test' - virtual worlds are not cultural spaces (more difficult to simulate human,l rather than natural, stuff' - focus on Marco Polo projkect which explores social ideas. - They "looked" good, but were "desolate places" - "no way to participate" in the urban landscape as a landscape Hayot and Wesp 2009 - Still not that great\u8230\'85 \u8220\'93The shallowness of Morrowind\u8217\'92s ornamentation emphasises its fictional nature, thus compromising its believability as fiction.\u8221\'94 (Strik) - "we are constantly presented with games that take those ideas, the product of a decades-long conversation, as immutable received wisdom." \u8220\'93In many modern games the world does not change to support the narrative, which is regrettable given the potential impact of doing it.\u8221\'94 Tom (GS) - wanted more of a complex world - \u8220\'93more freedom to examine items or objects\u8221\'94. Saw it as \u8220\'93quite static\u8221\'94 for #3 - the environments work like Potemkin villages.(Bogost) - In fact, the fact that striated digital space is easier to hide and 'make smooth' than striated character is probably down to how much we chunk, reduce, and PAY LESS ATTENTION to space. In asking people to pay *more* attention to space, we might be breaking that. - (in skyrim study, ecosystems still skin-deep. Improved by mods, Tiny touches: The breath coming out of my character's nose. The difference between worlddfilledness (Having lots to do) and worldliness (having the social structures and other elements ofo a real (if fictiona;) world) (Champion). \u8220\'93Does this kind of deep detail reinforce and support the overall art and design direction for the entire world? Sure, the various tree bark and rock surfaces can be detailed to such a degree that individual clumps of lichen can now be articulated, shaded, and lit \endash  but to what purpose? In this case, is the world presented about stopping and pondering nature, savoring a detail level that has moss growing from antipodean directions to the sun? Or is the game all about getting the player to the next joy trigger as smoothly and deftly as possible, with just enough detail to keep the focal beats strung together? Are both extremes to be accommodated, if not equally appeased? \u8220\'93 Work also needs to be done (Champion in Applying Game Design) on improvng environment design and game goals to foreground the background more effectively. "mazes rather real-world spaces" for shooters - spaces correlated between what they are as places and how they function p.24 - sometimes different worlds, sometimes a contiguous space - often FEEL disconnected.He critiques digital place - the platial relationships are rarely considered beyond military strategy. "To approximate reality requires settings for social transactions that are location specific and task specific." (Champion) He was writing quite a while ago about digital place - this is starting to change now. "emerging technologies are implicated in and by natural systems. Most mainstream games, for instance, offer game environments as simplistic vehicles for graphical spectacle or extractive resource management." "he former encourages a sense of wonder and artistic appreciation, but threatens to relegate the environment to pictorial backdrop; the latter allows the environment to move beyond mere setting or scenery by inviting interaction, yet often constrains gameplay to the instrumentalization of nature." Playing with the past - Talks about how STATIC a lot of virtual environments are - for conclusion. Bruce Janz - He says we rarely "tarry" in digital places. Need to balance "constant engagement" "it is all architecture, no life forms. For stage sets, however perfect, do not tell us much about how people lived there." I think knole points a way forward. "they are generally used as showcases for technology rather than to reveal the views and beliefs of the owners of that culture."  Manovich navigable space pg. 13 - still in the early stages of virtual space.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\ltrch\loch \f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b1\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1 Paragraph 5}{\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1  - Next steps.}
\par\plain \f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i1\cf1 The project itself}{\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 : Want to undertake more studies, more findings: tour it more, with different types of audiences: try and set up the \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8216\'91ideal\u8217\'92 relationship, people coming back again and again.  }
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch {\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93 Less effective systems will be little more than a fleeting and amusing novelty, but the real interest \endash  and the real revolution \endash  will come when interaction sessions are cumlative in their effect so that progressive and long-term \u8216\'91relationships\u8217\'92 can develop between the system and the user (Frude, 1987, 1989, 1991)\u8221\'94 Perhaps work up the Awlbatch prototype a bit more. A full study with the entire Housekeeping. "huge psychological weight" of games - we spend much longer with them than films.}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\pard\plain \tx4613\li720\fi-360\ri-1332\sl360\slmult1\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i1\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i1\cf1 I want to continue pushing this idea of character-as-environment}{\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 . More works of art, further ideas: how can we further frame systemic persons as similar to ecosystems, and use our engagement with ecosystems to frame our engagements with systemic artificial persons? How else is our relationships with persons \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8216\'91environmental\u8217\'92 and all that entails - exploratory, spatial etc. He really wants to move away from the character, but we cannot. needs to talk about Ryan's conception - move out into what characters, what types of narratives, might be possible or desirable. How treating things as persons, of creating computational experiences that allow you interact with places as persons might have benefits beyond\u8230\'85 Starting to engage with these post-humanist ideas of redefining subjecthood, personhood, and looking at networks and systemic relationships - where do the persons come in? Part of \u8216\'91narratology beyond the human\u8217\'92. How can narrative practice, particularly }{\f3\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1 comp-art}{\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 , stand up to engaging with \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93supra-individual phenomena\u8221\'94. "biological body as a system open to the environment in which it resides". Different \u8216\'91punctualisations\u8217\'92 - where else can we redraw the lines of character? A story of a human through their microbiology? Is that still a character-driven story? Who are the characters in these new, systemic narratives? It becomes about changing what a character can be, rather than fitting comp-art to old, restrictive ideas of character.systems biology and symbiogenesis says no such thing as sovereign entities - just systems and their environments - at all sorts of scales, from human up and down - using this to redefine models of how to build representational systems of persons might help us to use comp-art to represent persons - changing the 'scale' of personhood to a larger TYPE of system that we already imaginatively and socially engage with - changing the imaginative focus of person-led narratives. More work to do on these scales, on where we draw the lines of personhood, and what kind of computational narratives you could tell with such a focus. "the continuing debate in human (and physical) geography regarding the necessity of scale itself" - actor network theory. Removing scale and divides between human/non-human, conscious/unconscious }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0\cf1 I don't want to remove scale, but certainly play with it. Tilley - }{\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 THe "scale of analysis" - where are the boundaries of the place we are talking about? For conclusion - symbiogenesis in Margulis - new lifeforms arise from the symbiogenesis of previously separate systems - can't go into it too much, but interesting! The scale of life, of personhood... Barbieri (theoretical biologist) -(Nayar on him) "all organisms are networks and not sovereign, autonomous entities" - Symbiogenesis is basically the biological discipline that concerns itself with scales of life (where do we draw the lines for life) - and does this mean we can play with where we draw the lines for personhood, especially when using a format (comp-art) that privileges networks and "systems biology" (Nayar) - Gilbert calls it "the permeable I" - no "self-contained I". The creature had definite boundaries, but open it up. "bodies are simultaneously open and closed" - "not a self-contained, bounded entity" - Relating it to similar studies in consciousness studies - Alterity = the degree of separation of an entity from its environment. Alterity, obviously, in posthumanism, is to a lesser or more complicated extent. "in which snese is a person an individual when they are made up of many non-human organisms and are also formed of shifting relationships?" Caraciolo - does character HAVE to be human-like? "unsettle the metaphysical primacy of the human". \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93our image of the world has to become one in which processes predominate and human actors disappear\u8221\'94 (1996: 554)". "The broad view espoused by cybernetics is that living systems are complex, adaptive control systems engaged in circular relations with their environments." - where is the boundaries between enviro and libing systems? Part of systems art.Might be that some people don't need characters as much (CRIT) - literature on anthropomorphism shows a trend for some people but not others. Relate to Bogost - a person can be a system, rather than a monolith IN a system. Opens up much larger questions on coherence and entities in a system. Are characters 'tokens' or 'quasi-objects' within a system. Not entirely wedded to actor network theory, but some of its ideas are interesting. creating characters from bundles of processes - do we do the same? Actually going back to a formalist approach - characters not as perdurant, but as atomic/structural. Characters as perdurant, emergent structures in the noise. New cybernetics bridges 'micro/macro gap' - less distinction between levels of systems (conclusions) and it shows that information as constructed and reconstructed by the individual, and is 'observer-dependent' - Felix Geyer and Hans van der Zouwen. Emergence in a system from components - punctualisation - all actors are made up of smaller actors. Characterts and people are hiccups, agglomerations, arbitrary environments. The lice in our eyebrows.Doesn\u8217\'92t every environment have its environment? - Hofstader, 545 - \u8220\'93morphogenesis\u8221\'94 - \u8220\'93intercellular communication on a local level give rise to large-scale, global structures and organisations\u8221\'94 - Humans as a \u8220\'93chunked model\u8221\'94 - \u8220\'93we sacrifice dereminism for simplicity\u8221\'94 - Fundamentally - on what level of the universe (as an isomorphism of it) are we trying to encode characterisation? "Some biologists influenced by cybernetic concepts (Maturana and Varela, 1980; Varela, 1979; Atlan, 1979) realized that the cybernetic metaphors of the program upon which molecular biology had been based rendered a conception of the autonomy of the living being impossible. " In conclusion: as I said in CHapter 2, don't want to abandon agent approach entirely. Courting the ancient agency bias of human beings. Trying to reconcile that with the difficult of ACTUAL agency. Can it be detached from its mystical, religious, animist associations? Could we build environmental characters that are NOT gods or spirits? Shawn Graham's IF NPC- " Jason Dyer recommended breaking up the Major\u8217\'92s speeches, for, \u8220\'93the sense of discovery in conversation (in this sort of game) needs to be the same as the sense of discovery in exploring an environment.\u8221\'94" John Osborne\u8217\'92s gamasutra article - avoiding character may well be problematic. And characterising systems is unavoidable - not doing it is as much an endorsement of a character-led view as doing it. For conclusion? " blurs the boundary between sub-jectivity and materiality, agency and passivity" Econarratology can definitely help.\tab  ('Distributed cognition' - inspired by ant hives. Ryan's review of Palmer's work provides an introduction to this.) - Ryan disagrees that places can be agents - a collective mind is different from a singular mind. But I think its a case of frames. While Ryan states (and Palmer agrees) that individual and social minds are different, I believe that the latter can be used to produce a sort of the former through metaphor. Not taking a formalist point of view - not interested in 'character as function' (Propp, in Caraciolo) - as caraciolo states, somewhere between functionalist and mimetic, disregarding the totality of both - an 'econarratology of character'. I don't want to decouple character, remember (Chapter 1), but still interested in 'agencies' (Chapter 2), but still want to stay 'perdurant'. "With environmental presence the individual affects and is affected by the outside world. If there is social presence we affect others in a virtual world. If there is cultural presence we should be able to detect a distinctly situated sense of inhabitation, of social values and behaviors preserved and transmitted through ritual, artefact and inscription." Running these three together. - we could do this with character-as-enviro. }{\f4\fs32\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 I'm more resistant to the Formalist approach that can be entailed by econarratology (as Caracciolo does)}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 The "overtly other" - perhaps this is the best way to go, rather than trying to pursue human commonality.}
\par\pard\plain \ri-1332\sl360\slmult1\ltrch\loch {\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8216\'91the distinction between static settings and dynamic characters\u8217\'92 are less clear (eskenlinen)}
\par\pard\plain \ri-1332\sl360\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 In delineating this example of an }{\f3\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 autocosmic}{\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2  methodology, I am diverging slightly from the post-classical and post-humanist projects I identified in the last section. While I am certainly interested in how econarratology, for example, can \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8216\'91probe modes of causal efficacy that are alternative to human agency and subjectivity\u8217\'92\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs16\b0\i0 \tab  cite\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\pard\plain \ri-1332\sl360\slmult1\ltrch\loch {\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2  - unlike caracciolo, I think environmental thinking can be used for humanesque characters, but I am open to the concept of character being changed along the way.}{\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "narrative\loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8217\'92s tendency to foregroundhuman protagonists, psychological causality, and human-scale temporality andspatiality"}
\par\plain {\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Do we need to "extricate character from anthropomorphicconceptions"}
\par\plain {\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 I'm not sure that we can easily get away from anthropomorphism.}
\par\plain {\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 This approach to character is metaphorical, he admits, but that is not a weakness. I also want to pursue this angle.}
\par\plain {\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 "How can narrative elevate the nonhuman\endash material objects, butalso large-scale processes such as globalization or the weather\endash to the position ofa character? "}
\par\plain {\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 Change of focalisation and punctualisation, together.}
\par\pard\plain \ri-1332\sl360\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1  In conclusion - my approach is Formalist, in a way (though very unprescriptive) - KEogh wouldn't like it. }
\par\pard\plain \ri-1332\sl360\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2  Does changing the focalisation of computational character in this way help with Bogost\loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8217\'92s issue with a lack of systemic focus in character-led narratives by considering characters in the same way that we consider systems: systems not larger than ourselves, but precisely as large as we are?}
\par\plain {\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 Depending on which level you focus on, that\loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8217\'92s where the character is - punctualisation.}
\par\plain {\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 Falstein talks about animals and robots being easier to do.}
\par\pard\plain \ri-1332\sl360\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 t\loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8217\'92s not human? Really, that\u8217\'92s the real goal - resonant computational characters where the computation goes into \u8216\'91human\u8217\'92 traits. I agree that in a way I have dodged the question - though most sensible practitioners do this, trying to compute human-adjacent elements of narratives. Also the post-humanism argument - we are changing what we think of as a character, as a person. I wanted to see if there was another approach to the classical agent model, rather than a mere proxy. "We see the human mind as the only one worth emulating"}
\par\pard\plain \tx4613\ri-1332\sl360\slmult1\ltrch\loch \f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i1\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i1\cf1 Working with museums and digital heritage more}{\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 : this is in particular something that will really benefit from narrative design work. Incredibly important ways that people build truth, understand themselves and others: char-as-enviro helps in particular here with the focus on environments and the enviros outlasting the humans that constitute them. Greef and Latioli - Many applications, such as culture, are dynamic and therefore static representations are notefficient for portraying them.\loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8221\'94 The systemics of personhood, and the personhood of systemics, in heritage interp. "Both Gillings and I suggest it is not a lack of realism but a lack of meaningful content which impedes the enjoyment of virtual heritage (Champion 2006)." }{\f3\fs22\b0\i0 Janet Murray - IDN as a \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93cognitive scaffold for increasing our\u8230\'85 understanding of complex systems\u8221\'94 - }{\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "Virtual environments can also present ideas, objects, or techniques difficult to perceive or conceive of in real-world form, or in conventional media."}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f2\fs22\b0\i1\cf1
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i1\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i1\cf1 Exploring site-specificity, installation work, augmented virtuality and natural interfaces more as well. }{\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Further blurring the lines between life and art. The \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8216\'91computational\u8217\'92 itself.  muddying the boundaries further between aesthetic and non-aesthetic, real life and art. Traditionally the preserve of conceptual arts. Those as NARRATIVE tools - how do we experience fictional narratives differently when our bodies are involved at more refined levels? An }{\f3\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1 autocosmic}{\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1  take on these issues. "Taste, touch, and smell are far less developed senses, and they do not seem to have any narrative potential". Just the start of addressing these issues.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i1\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i1\cf1 Further project ideas:}{\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1   Smaller projects, not requiring so much prep. Making ecocritical works (with heritage places) - place as personhood. Works that allow you to experience systemic personhood directly, that plays with what that means - either as videogames, installations or otherwise. Ideas -  Applying territory mechaics to interpersonal relationships (castles and an argument in a relationship) - navigate an argument as a space between two almost-impregnable castles. Also trying to improve digital enviro design, as well, after weaknesses noted above. THe \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8216\'91more-than-human\u8217\'92 or \u8216\'91post-human narratological\u8217\'92 perspective digitally as well - new types of character, away from computational rhetoric that is anthropomorphising - who already does this?  "It can therefore be said that many games have been designed not to need AI. For the academic who wants to build interesting AI for an in-game role, the best might therefore be to create new game designs that start from the existence of the AI" - "ecocritics and game designers may find an increasingly ripe source for analysis in the worlds constructed in videogames." - other way around? In industrial design - spaces that become smart, become animate, become \u8216\'91alive\u8217\'92 - this too?  Bogost (Critical Path) talking about not just showing 'human-interest stories', but 'we want to show as much of the system of that situation as we can'. The system becomes the new character, but without the reductiveness or anti-narrative bent that Bogost uses. " is the player character's environment an enemy or obstacle that must be overcome? Or must it be exploited to win? Can videogames help encourage players to develop a more responsible attitude towards the world beyond their screens?" "A different kind of mistake is found in some commercial approaches to virtual worlds. Here, space in video games serves too often as polygon-rich spectacle and \u8220\'93eye candy\u8221\'94 that remains largely unused in the actual gameplay. It is time to revise this immature misconception and build new connections along the way for further debate." Using existing systemic models (OOO, multiple agent architectures) to new metaphorical ends. "games are structurally predisposed toward creating meaningful interaction within artificially intelligent environments, and should be well poised to model dynamics long at the core of ecological thinking\hich\f3 \emdash \loch\f3 interdependence, limitation, nested organizational scales, flows of energy and biomass, feedback, and so on." Not just scientific approaches, though. How does one manage coherency - can we push the idea of person to its limits? \u8220\'93Is the world something akin to a principal actor, taking center stage, or rather a mechanism for more complex interaction, in and of itself? Is it merely there as a non-interactive vessel for some other form of gameplay?\u8221\'94 (Noah Berry). }
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f2\fs22\b0\i1\cf1
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i1\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i1\cf1 Expand the idea of the autocosmic as well}{\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 : Other avenues for autocosmic exploration, other issues of computational narrative art: meaningful choice, plot development. More research into the nature of distance/belief - this is key, I think, to the autocosmic, and will reveal some interesting fuzzy boundaries between \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8216\'91mundane\u8217\'92 and \u8216\'91aesthetic\u8217\'92 experiences. Bolster my defence. "Finally, the nature of fiction, which is a pragmatic issue, has received much more attention from philosophers than from literary narratologists."  Koenitz workshop - "practitioners continue to push the envelope of interactive narrative forms". "this perspective has had only a limited impact on the design of interactive digital narratives" - non-western perspective - don't think it necessarily has to be non-western, but rather more wide-reaching - autocosmics provides that. Thon - contemporary narratology has only just begun to address these questions. of what new narrative forms arise, and how they relate to interactivity. Benford interested in taking his model outside of HCI - me too!  Autocosmics is a reification not of a field, but a desire within a field. " This will require more than the standard ethnographic suspension of disbelief. Rather,it will demand-at the very least-the kind of true agnosticism described by Nelson, combined with a willingness to treat xtraordinary experiences as data and take them intoaccount in our theory making" - why does belief matter, to me? "When designing the worlds we play in, future game designers might increasingly be educated in \u8220\'93traditional\u8221\'94 elements of landscape design, including ecology and architecture. With this also comes the opportunity for people in different fields to collaborate in shaping the worlds of future video games, radically reshaping both professions in the process." }{\f3\fs22\b0\i0 Janet Murray - we are at a milestone moment now for IDN. Lots to study, lots of practitioners. \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93Overlaps with other disciplines\u8221\'94 - moving out of \u8220\'93siloes\u8221\'94 - need new \u8220\'93structural innovations\u8221\'94 - \u8220\'93moral physics\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \f3\fs22\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 FINISH WITH A HINT OF ANNE.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\ltrch\loch \f3\fs22\b0\i0\cf1}