{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 ArialMT;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial-BoldMT;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial-ItalicMT;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 charterregular,Georgia,serif;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red69\green69\blue69;\red251\green251\blue251;}
{\*\listtable
{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f0\fs24\b0\i0\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 OVERVIEW}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b1\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Reintroduce the idea of media-specific resonance of computational characters perhaps being achieved by a }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 balance}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  of imaginative engagement with meaningful systems - and the autocosmic being a good model for that, away from models in other art; as it gives us access to those imaginative relationship between people and experiences/beings/narratives that lie outside the strictly aesthetic. A new angle.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 This is a general methodology: a general philosophy to approach the creation of characters, rather than a particular technical approach. A perspective on construction and reception of characters. Not new specific techniques, but new general spirit in which to pursue those techniques. And the autocosmic realm is, obviously enormous, and I tried to draw widely not just on autocosmic elements directly, but on other artistic and technical projects that were clearly inspired by non-artistic imaginative engagement by audiences - in how they tried to both }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 engage their audiences and in how they built their computational systems, the two simulatory systems. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 This interdisciplinarity is a given. }
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs24\b1\i0	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 EXAMPLES (INCLUDE HOW THEY RELATE BETWEEN SYSTEMS AND IMAGINATION): }
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 My}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0  relationship with my pets}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  and other animals (who else talks about this), I studied my pets for behaviour/ charactefulness, but also how I responded to my pets and other animals, how I performed with them, the narratives and personalities that I ascribed them, distance between real cat and mind-cat, put this into knole dynamic (the cat we kept), familiars as pets:  Systemics vs imagination. How animals become characters. We are building them, but there is something already there.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93sociable robots\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , drawing on both narrative theory and psychology (Brazeal, Paro, Geri-Joy, Robin The Robot), trying to provoke the same feelings of intimacy, familiarity and reactiveness through knole, for narrative affect rather than merely utilitarian affect; Systemics vs imagination.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Research into \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91relational artefact\u8217\'92 (Turkle) for the power of the human imagination to enliven simple and meaningful objects and create narrative relationships with them, especially toys (furbys and tamagotchis were big inspirations for the interaction model for knole). (took apart Furbys and Tamagotchis), toys in general  (Woodyer, Piaget, Turke, Mishra, Weizenbaum) - furby stuff builds on piaget stuff. Child psychology, attributing aliveness.  Systemics vs imagination. Toys as \u8216\'91empathy machines\u8217\'92, as I called them. How they become more systemic, not just in the imagination. }{\f3\fs-2\b0\i0\cf3\cb4\highlight4 he introduction of microelectronics has led to toys whose personalities and responses are not only imagined by the child, but are real and hard-coded. Away from marketing/commerce. \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93Love and guilt\u8221\'94, as I called it. Also tied to gamification of relationship. I try to subvert that. How things become characters. How government policy was changed because the narrative suggestion of the toy suggested features it did not have. Turkle\u8217\'92s idea that it is not movement but psychology that now excites us in toys. For adults as well.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Imaginary friends (sherman, elshirst, gjersoe, taylor, hoff, klausen and passman) and how they persist into adulthood, characters which we imaginatively interact with OUTSIDE the narrative/fictional, which we experience within real life, the emotions they provoke, the roles they play.  Systemics vs imagination.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Dehumanisation and compassion fatigue (haque, koltoff ray and anderson) to play with how the human mind can characterise and decharacterise through contact and instrumentalisation, and to play with your emotions for the creature as it gets sicker.  Systemics vs imagination. The creature being seen as more mechanical. How people lose their characterability.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Robots more generally, outside the artistic (McCarthy, Riek et al 2009, Sung, Gaver, The Stem, Novikova and Watts, Novikova, Gaudl and Bryson, Ian Brown, Fink et al 2012, Novkiova 2014, Prendinger and Ishikuza 2005, Delft Study on Roomba Personality, Forlizzi & DiSalvo, Wiseman, Braitenberg, Riskin, Turing, DeAngelis, various Brysons, McCorduck, Connell,) and within (Mateas, Penny, Angliss). Encountered in everyday life, workplace (the hide and research for that), beings that we are interacting with more and more, which we have social relationships with, imaginary relationships with. Relationship between humans and robotos, what we imagination them to be.  Systemics vs imagination.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Can also see the breadth of the study from the rest of this thesis (cognitive psychology, neurology, anthropomorphisation, AI, robotics, etc.) and this chapter.  Systemics vs imagination.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 While most of these are outside the bounds of this thesis, and were only introductions to change my thought on the subject of creating characters, they formed a constitutive part of the work of developing this story (see in my wider Zotero bibliography). However, I want to focus for the rest of thesis on one particular example that was central to my work, especially its fiction but also its construction; and which broadly illustrates the utility of taking a autocosmic approach to taking character. Creating resonance by lateral thinking. A general methodology applied specifically. }
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 This example is how one particular autocosmic relationship - with environment, and landscape - can inform character design in computational art.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0}