{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 ArialMT;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Georgia-Bold;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Georgia;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable
{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\fi-360\li720\lin720}
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9675\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\fi-360\li1440\lin1440}{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\fi-360\li720\lin720}
{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\fi-360\li1080\lin1080}
{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'02.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\fi-360\li1440\lin1440}
{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'03.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\fi-360\li1800\lin1800}
{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'04.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\fi-360\li2160\lin2160}
{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\fi-360\li2520\lin2520}
{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'06.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\fi-360\li2880\lin2880}
{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'07.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\fi-360\li3240\lin3240}{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid6\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid6}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1 Section 3.2: Humanity's Complex & Autocosmic Relationship With Space, Place And Environment}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b1\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b1\i0\cf1 FIRST PARA: }{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 A reference to Anne\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92s world, the environment she lives in, her dislike of the moor, the particulars of people\u8217\'92s movements - space and place a big part of this. Anne living at a time when the changing relationship between person and place was particularly heightened. Particularly its relationship to our imagination. Bothy project residency stanage edge visit. @ start - Anne lying at a crossroads. The view on the moor - nature as dangerous, as possessed of intent. Unpredictable. All around react to it in different ways. People\u8217\'92s idea of the moor but few people go out there anymore. The pixies she lists. The cunning fol;k she lists.  Draw it back to the moor.}
\par\plain \f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b1\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1 Overview Of Fields}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\ltrch\loch \f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 knole development (drawing on autocosmic philosophy) framed by many different fields, disciplines etc. talking about place and space, across arts, history, science, anthropology etc - united by how space interacts with our autocosmic imagination. The environments in which we exist, and with which we are in 'continual interaction', are of significance both consciously and unconsciously, evolutionarily and culturally, aesthetically and non-aesthetically; it is a dialogue which epitomises the multifarious interpenetration of the autocosmic. It might even be argued that, in the history of our species, that it is the relationship which laid the foundations for all which were to follow. Use these not just to point out the depth of autocosmic relationship with place - as much as with other people - but to provide inspiration for practice. Narrative relationship with place. To show the autocosmic, narrative potential of our relationship with landscape, transcending distinctions of art and life. Becoming a model for building my work - a model for interaction with the story/artwork. Again, only a brief overview of some of the exciting ideas from other fields that are influencing thinking. }
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-360\ri-998\sa820\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Fields: Literary Theory, Possible World Theory, Ecocriticism, Anthropology, Narratology, Cognitive Science (need a reference for each of these), philosophy, evolutionary science, neuroscience, biology, biosemiotics, \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93The environmental humanities are the traditional humanities \endash  such as philosophy, literature, religion, art, music, history, language studies, cultural geography \endash  conjoined in new interdisciplinary formations (inc with the natural and social sciences*) to address the environmental crisis currently engulfing us \endash  its antecedents, current forms and future trajectories and possible responses to it.\u8221\'94, ecofeminism, neophenomenology, human geography, heritage interpretation, geocriticism, econarratology, speculative realist philsophy. Not trying to present a universal structures, but pick out similarities.\u8216\'91Spatial frames\u8217\'92 - what we actually see of the environment. Implies the \u8220\'93setting\u8221\'94 (the wider environ) and by extension the \u8220\'93storyworld\u8221\'94 (}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 a coherent, unified, ontologically full and materially existing geographical entity, even when it is a fictional world that possesses none of these properties)}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1  . The narrative includes both \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8216\'91spatial frames\u8217\'92 and mentioned elements from setting - the storyworld comes from autocosmics}{\f0\fs20\b0\i0\cf1 Site-specificity. Controls \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91situation factor - Literary geography (neal alexander) - One of the important fields that traces human imaginative engagement with space."the relationship between humans and the non-human environment" "imaginative geography, literary cartography, geocriticism, geopoetics, geohumanities" ANT - "a space where things take place". Cybernetics as a field that is interested in this - \u8220\'93exploring regulatory systems\u8221\'94. cultural geography is part of spatial studies as well. Platial studies. vital materialism as an idea. Jane Bennett as an advocate that inanimate objects can have 'viotalioty' - can have tendencies, trajectories, impediments and blocakeg Alfred Gell's 'secondary agents' - the agency tht things possess when they become enmeshed in social relationshiops" - or is it self-suffieicnet? Acts upon people 2010, 1. - The Inka loved rocks. Animate. Made offerings to mountains.- "Fetishism as imbuing objects with power - not the thing itself, what it manifests. The landscape, though, has actual power. But the creature cannot really act upon you? ANT is about connection, communication, rather than something pre-existing. Am I anthropomorphising these ideas of 'actors' and 'agents' too much? Not like human agency? But we DO humanise them. " ecology is less a monolithic or universally agreed upon entity than it is a constantly shifting set of actors, practices, technologies, discourses, and artifacts " "environmental aesthetics has undergone a recent resurgence after being almost entirely subsumed by the nineteenth- and twentieth-century trend toward seeing art objects as the only proper recipients of aesthetic interest." - an example of nature as aesthetic, our relationship with it as aesthetic. Autocosmic. Berleants work is environmental aesthetics.Heylighen (cybernetics) cybernetics = "abstract principles of organization in complex systems". so second-order cybernetics is a bit like the reader-response theory of cybernetics - how an observer of a system understands and constructs models of it. This particularly for autocomics. "General Systems Theory (GST), founded at about the same time by Ludwig von Bertalanffy, as an attempt to build a unified science by uncovering the common principles that govern open, evolving systems". Sharov's paper brings biosemiotics and cybernetics together. Emergence and actor-network theory is a part of this. And systems biolody. and autopoeisis. Strongly related to systems theory. Up to geocybernetics.architecture (with reference to Alexander) " the essence of interactions between humans and the environment in patterns and how they evolve into distinct places."}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs20\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs20\b0\i0\cf1
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-360\ri-998\sa820\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs22\b1\i0\cf1	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs22\b1\i0\cf1 Brief History Of Growing Importance:}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1  Has changed across time. While "space, which is much easier to conceive than time, has been largely neglected" now we have Fredric Jameson (1991) - the 'spatial turn' - Ryan calls it 'spatiotemporal' - paralleled by interest in what Margaret wilson talking about \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93situated cognition\u8221\'94 (2002) - . \u8220\'93The environment is part of the cognitive system\u8221\'94, grounded cognition (Barsalou) and embodied cognition - \u8220\'93The importance of space has been reasserted in recent years.\u8221\'94 - Setting used to be seen as an \u8220\'93empty container\u8221\'94 - \u8220\'93Spatial literary studies\u8221\'94 - \u8220\'93Bridging the divide between the word and the world\u8221\'94 - Ryan's edited book on 'narrating space'. " space is not simply setting; it produces symbolic and emotional meaning, organizes plots, directs patterns of reader engagement, and orients readers effectively to both the spaces within stories and those weencounter and inhabit." - "we cannot think effectivelyabout narrativewithout thinking about space.\u8221\'94 - "a site of negotiation of the lived, experiential qualities conveyed by a story." - From 'container conception' (Caraciolo) - the connection between place and meaning\u8209\'2Dmaking has been foundational for human geography since the 1970s, and in particular since Yu\u8209\'2DFu Tuan\u8217\'92s Space and Place." - "through embodied, emotional, and intersubjective engagements guided by socio\u8209\'2D cultural practices" - Withers - spatial turn - \u8220\'93place as social practice\u8221\'94 - "The spatial is connected to and debated in literally every possible arena of human thinking." - Simon Schama talks about how identity, myth, memory and emotions are intimately connected to place. Embodied with ideals. Owain Jones - "life is inherently spatial, and inherently emotional" - we use memory, and meotion, and space to orient ourselves in our lives. Make sure I relate it to 1.4. Alexander References Foucault's proclamation that the spatial was more important than the temporal in the modern age (1967). Make it clear that all these fields are coming into the same Venn from different directions.  Actor network theory - Landscape = "where we do everything - Phenom of landscape - LS = "a long-lived dynamic entity deserving explanation" - "The idea of landscape as a set of relational places linked by pathways, movements and narratives". \u8220\'93landscape is fundamental to human existence because it provides both a medium for, and an outcome of, individual and social practices\u8221\'94 - landscapes, in abstract, are formed of places and the paths between them.geocriticism, westphal - space has become really important - 19th century was dominated by "the discourse of time... and teleological development" - Talks about the 'spatial turn' - "geocriticism attempts to understand the real and fictional spaces that we inhabit..." the postmodern or 'post-postmodern condition" - Post-positivist, away from empirical, rational approach - space is not "the empty container" autocosmic is part of this, as well! Westphal, in his introduction, gives an overview of how space has always been symbolic.- "the fruits of a symbolic system, of a speculative movement". Champion - \u8220\'93"To view a place as a container of x y and z dimensions is to deny it a cultural content. A place is more like a nexus, or a web. "  }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Haraway (2016) moves people off-centre as just one agent in landscape.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Reinhard talks about landscape phenomenology - an autocosmic (in part) relationship. Ingold, Heidegger, Merleay-Ponty, Husserl, Tilley}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "Territory is place-making, we try to find the optimal site for all conflicting}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 and varying possibilities." (difference between space and place.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b1\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1 Pre-Art/Evolution}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Drawing on what talked about in chapter 1 - a being in an environment, interested in environment and all its components, the \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93evolution of human cognition\u8221\'94 (Morris-Kay), and as beings with 'bodies located in space'(Wilson 2002) - \u8220\'93The development of an individual from embryo to adult involves a continual interaction between the animal\u8217\'92s genetic makeup and its environment\u8221\'94 - \u8220\'93True to phenomenologist doctrine, these authors believe that the most fundamental human experience consists of apprehending oneself as a body located in space.\u8221\'94 Dennett\u8217\'92s physical stance. Focussed on what is important to us. Looking for significance that relates to those desires. Ryan defines four features of worlds: \u8220\'93connected set of objects and individuals; habitable environment; reasonably intelligible totality for external observers; field of activity for its members\u8221\'94 (Ryan, 2001, p. 91).}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\ltrch\loch \ls3\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Crucially a }{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1 systemic}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1  interest, systemic narratives about place, \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93relational epistemologies\u8221\'94 (Bird-David) - understanding it as a system, \u8220\'93their study of how things-in-situations relate to the actor-perceiver and, from the actor-perceiver\u8217\'92s point of view, to each other\u8221\'94, which is part of practical knowledge (refer back to Sugiyama etc. in Chapter 1). Responding to a complex system all around us that is necessary to our survival. Dennett\u8217\'92s \u8216\'91design stance\u8217\'92. "cybernetic/systemic ecology". Narratives, lines of understanding, causations, systemic narratives, mental models. Yi Fu Tuan takes reader-response approach to our experience of place. Drawing on Paul Shepherd - "only a person who could \u8220\'93establish lines of connectedness or relationship\u8221\'94 (think and act according to totemic and animistic concepts) with the natural world could survive." Sagan - \u8220\'93the myths and folklore of many premodern cultures has explanatory or at least mnemonic value. In stories that everyone can appreciate or even witness, they encode the environment.\u8221\'94 Landscape was not dead - it DID react back. Difference between \u8220\'93operational environment\u8221\'94 (real world) and \u8220\'93cognised encironment\u8221\'94 (how human beings experience that world) (Rapaport). Using our \u8216\'91umwelts\u8217\'92, interpreting our \u8216\'91semiotic niche\u8217\'92. This supported in modern day by biosemiotics (Kull et al, Sebeok) - how signs and meaning are passed around ecologies, the creation and manipulation of meaningful signs how things appear to each other, on lots of different levels. Meaning attribution \u8216\'91stabilises\u8217\'92 processes and allow us to build on them and work with them. \u8220\'93The interpretive capacity is an emergent property of a reciprocal end-means relationship of a self-propagating dynamical system.\u8221\'94 Also actor-network theory. Other cybernetic theories of biology. Meaning exterior (what signs are projected) and meaning interior (how signs are interpreted). \u8220\'93The unknown is so inflammatory to the imagination because it is an imaginative malleable space: a projection-screen on to which a culture or an individual can throw their fears and aspirations.\u8221\'94 Ambiguity in nature. Rappaport - "on populations in the ecological sense, that is, as one of the components of a system of trophic exchanges taking place within a bounded area." (Biersack,1999,5) The cognized model according to Rappaport is the "model of the environment conceived by the people who act in it," (Wolf,1999, 19). \u8220\'93a predictive strategy of interpretation \u8220\'93 - Koenig's imaginative systems - parsing systems and then having a strategy - the 'operational environment'\tab  Rappaport in which we exist and act as organisms becomes part of the 'cognised environment'. Not just for humans. 'in trophic exhanges' Biersack of varying significances to that particular animal's 'significant surround'. a constant 'interpretative challenge' by all elements of that environment to 'establish lines of connectedness' (Paul Shepherd) \u8216\'91Predictive strategy\u8217\'92 (Koenig). actor-network theory - social and natural worlds are relationship systems between actors in networks. all about process and dynamic between factors. Bruno Latour 2005 a reference - A post-structuralist approach - the 'actor-network' - related to Guattari's rhizomes - Emergence in a system from components - punctualisation - all actors are made up of smaller actors. Become 'tokens' or 'quasi-objects'. "Stories tell about the actions of intelligent agents. These agents are situated within a world, and so are the objects they act upon. One may infer from this description that telling a story necessitates, in the words of David Herman \u8220\'93modeling, and enabling others to model, an emergent constellation of spatially related entities.\u8221\'94" - Remember distinctions between geographic space and symbolic space - still are inherently relational in nature. We enjoyed 'pattern-making' - The cognitive activity underlying pattern-making is complex, involving planning and intention, but the original idea of pattern may be a function of the brain - "Roger M. Downs and David Stea argue that \u8220\'93cognitive mapping is a process composed of a series of psychological transformations by which an individual acquires stores, recalls, and decodes information about the relative locations and attributes of the phenomena in his everyday spatial environment\u8221\'94 (qtd. in Kitchin and Freundschuh 2000, 1)". they are "labs" for turning hypothetical experience into real experience. "complex new model" of categorisation in early humans of their environment. (Talking about Levi-Strauss' work) - important signs were made into symbols. a "dynamic map... coming into being" storytelling both helps remember this map and activates its symbols, folding them into everyday behaviours.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 moving from space -> place. \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93space only becomes place when people are able to imbue it with meaning\u8221\'94. Focussed on 'situatedness' - about place. \u8220\'93material stuff gathered at this spot\u8221\'94 and \u8220\'93narrations, interpretations and imaginations that gie the place distinctive meaning and value\u8221\'94. Specific places, not just \u8216\'91space\u8217\'92 generally. A particular \u8216\'91umwelt\u8217\'92. Not \u8220\'93universalizing one\u8217\'92s own perspective. " (cognitive science in ecocrit) - \u8220\'93 by which we understand the properties of complex objects in relation to one another.\u8221\'94 Drawing on Tuan a place is a stable object in space that catches our attention. - "As we experience space, and construct representations of it, we know that it will be continuous. Everything is somewhere, and no matter what other characteristics object do not share, they always share relative location, that is, spatiality; hence the desirability of equating knowledge with space, an intellectual space. This assures an organization and a basis for predictability, which are shared by absolutely everyone. This proposition appears to be so fundamental that apparently it is simply adopted a priori. A. H. Robinson & B. B. Petchenik, The nature of maps: essays towards understanding maps and mapping, 1976, p.4". \u8220\'93Space becomes place as it acquires experiential depth" Foote and Azaryah. From space -> environment - Ryan's book - (from review) "a network of relations between objects" one might encounter there (45)". Ecology - "the principles... that make relations with an environment systemic" - \u8220\'93Innate awareness that there is more to the ordering of fate than appears on the surface\u8221\'94 (superstition) - He quotes Norberg Schulz on the importance of place to mankind. Place is resonant space. Place As Historically-Contingent Process - place as a "constantly becoming human product as well as a set of features visible upon the landscape". "place as a process" - it is constantly going on. People are "process participants... integrated human beings" - "institutional and individual practices" - "the ever-becoming place." " a process whereby an endless dialectic between practice and social structure expresses itself locally." "It is a process whereby the reproduction of social and cultural forms, the formation of biographies, and the transformation of nature ceaselessly become one another" place-making - "organise space in such a way as to mark the topos as special, to set it apart from the spaces surrounding and infusing it" Champion - "Place gains unique character through time and use" Place is mark-able, recordable, it leaves signs of its use, it erodes or denudes into more or less usability." Place is particular, unique, dynamic, and memorably related to other places, peoples, and mto events (tasks and happenings). place = "a region recognisable to a user as a}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 culturally coded setting"}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\ltrch\loch \ls3\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Particularly seen in correspondence with Dennett\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92s intentional stance - place not only seen as a systemic relation, but as a social other. "the employment of human socially biased cognitive skills" (Bird-David). Anthropomorphism/animism - towards environments as a whole and as animals. Animals as componetns of, representatives of and commeasurate with the landscape. Positions on this range from cognitivist to procedural (Ingold). "relational personhood" - things can become persons through our interaction with them. Attributing belief, goals, inner experience, thoughts and emotions (Robbin and Jack, 2006). Use to \u8220\'93predict\u8221\'94 behaviour (dictionary of philosophy of mind). Intentional stance as _subset_ of design stance. "efficient" even if wrong. Turned out Nice Again (2013) - the weather as a "creature of our imagination". a way to understand the systems in the world around us that we did not have the \u8216\'91science\u8217\'92 for, espcially complex systems. "attempt to explain patterns... hit upon animism as a good - actually, predictive - approximation of some unimaginably complex phenom". old animism - "myth-making practices that imbue the environment with unbounded nonhuman vitality". \u8220\'93a functional method of understanding otherness (Doniger 33-34).\u8221\'94 Dennett\u8217\'92s work: from a "hyperactive agency detection device" (Barrett, 2004) arising from evolutionary pressures. Building on Boyer (2001) and Shermer (1997). Dennett states that we are instinctively drawn, both in our senses, subdoxastic responses (Gao & Scholl 2011, Gao Newman and Scholl 2009, LeDoux 2004, Barrett et al 2005, Takahasi and Watanabe, 2013)) and our imaginative extrapolation, to anything which reveals agency in the world around us. This became the major way that we understood the world around us. Such elements in our environments, more than any other, could spell trouble or opportunity to the subject's survival prospects (Lofstedt 1996, Subbotsky 2014).in a classic act of evolutionary over-engineering (Scheele et al, 2015). fraught, "quick and dirty" (Tavinor, 2007) \u8220\'93heuristic sensitivity\u8221\'94 (Blom, 2010) was very tolerant of "false positives" (Fodor, 1983) in the agency-detection process (Guthrie, 1993), leading to a suite of well-documented phenomena such as pareidolia (Blom, 2010), animism (Heider & Simmel, 1944) and anthropomorphism (Guthrie, 1993). Levi-Strauss \u8220\'93totemism\u8221\'94 - animals as other \u8216\'91persons\u8217\'92, as beings, as characters. \u8220\'93non-human entities possess a spiritual essence\u8221\'94 (animism), \u8220\'93ancient man experienced his environment as consisting of definite characters\u8221\'94 - at different scales. \u8220\'93Inhumanity\u8221\'94 but not characterlessness. (Macfarlane). from subdoxastic responses\tab  Gao and Scholl 2011 Gao, Newman and Scholl 2011LeDoux 2004 to conscious imaginative engagement - Heider and Simmel, 1944 - Ingold (\u8221\'94functional\u8221\'94) - All semiotic processes at human scale are about communication of symbols within minds, \u8220\'93the biological processes constituting minds\u8221\'94 - \u8220\'93At the root of human belief in gods lies an instinct on a hair trigger: the disposition to attribute agency\hich\f2 \emdash \loch\f2 beliefs and desires and other mental states\hich\f2 \emdash \loch\f2 to anything complicated that moves. " - the etiology, structure, and attributes of logos (transcendent or higher truths) that bind human beings into meaningful and enduring social orders and enable the trustworthy communication necessary for a shared social and cultural life.\u8221\'94 The way holiness, sacredness, functions as part of an environment, and a system. A 'regulatory hierarchy'. "cybernetics of the holy" - ""by the excess population of imaginary agents" - The whole environment is 'punctualised', to differing degrees, becoming 'quasi-objects' for the superstitious. FWB is "innate to human culture" - " the tendency of the person network to be triggered by certain stimulus features even when we are aware that the stimulus is not a person" - patterns of motion, facial recognition - "in sum, we come into the world with a brain system genetically preprogrammed to represent persons as distinct from other kinds of objects in the world. This system is surprisingly autonomous, in the sense that it is triggered by}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 certain stimuli and can be difficult to suppress. It becomes active even when we know that the triggering stimulus is not a person, that is, when other parts of our brain representtheinformationthatthestimulusisnotaperson,butan}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 unrealistic drawing of a person or even a geometric shape. Indeed, it becomes active in the presence of triggering stimulus features even when irrelevant or downright counterproductive.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 A "person network" - 'person' is not a real thing in the world, like 'plants' - 'plants' could be perceieved as people under the right circumstances. }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Yi-Fu Tuan - "\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Seeing what is not there lies at the foundation of all human culture\u8221\'94 (1998) (Escapism)}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "ourintuitionsabout}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 who or what has a mind are partly under the control of su-}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 perficial and potentially misleading trigger features such as}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 eyes and faces"}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 This all about the utility of ambiguity in evolved persception of personhood.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1  Has some tie to cybernetics - How systems are GOVERNED. That means there is a GOVERNOR}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 We are GETTING something from this hairtrigger response.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 So we are more likely to recongise persons, its own part of the brain - but we can be confused by non-person stimulus.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f1\fs22\b1\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs22\b1\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs22\b1\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1 SO: }{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 In other words, an ecosystem that is instrumentally related to. A systemic, specific, narrative relationship with place. How we process, understand and imagine into significance place and space and its contents. they are "intentional systems". Understanding complex, relational ecosystems by means of social metaphors. Individual places. The resonance of these places. Linking the characterful to place at a fundamental level,. \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93The haunted world we inhabit by virtue of being human\u8221\'94 - Sagan.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f1\fs22\b1\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b1\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1 From Evolution To Art, Superstition, Ritual, Narrative & Religion}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b1\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls4\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 These situated, evolved, narrative and social relations with place, environment and its constituents imprinted on human culture, and in particular imaginative, narrative, character-focussed activities - the rise of religion and art. TIE ALL THIS TO RESONANCE}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\ltrch\loch \ls5\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 UNCLEAR DISTINCTIONS BETWEEN THESE, AND THEIR RELATIONSHIP TO CULTURE AND EVOLUTION AND BELIEF: "is religion... adaptive or is adapatiation religious", when is it religion and when is it art? When is it superstition and when is it religion? When is it believed? Lots of competing theories. Shows strength of autocosmic ambiguity. Dennett sees culture/religion (first \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8216\'91protoreligion\u8217\'92) arising directly from evolved faculties, and being subject to memetic revision (essentially resonance). Ryan also talks about myths and rituals changing over time, Dennett - "social systems whose participants avow belief in a supernatural agent or agents whose approval is to be sought" - " belief is a genuinely curious and perplexing phenomenon," - \u8220\'93belief attribution appears beset with subjectivity, infected with cultural relativism, prone to "indeterminacy of radical translation" - Makes point in breaking the spell that things that were religion have now become cultural, if not aesthetic, practices. Halloween, as an example. Role of language? He sees it as arising from linguistic tendencies (Dennett) \u8220\'93"folk religions emerged without conscious and deliberate design, just as languages emerged, by interdependent processes of biological and cultural evolution.\u8221\'94 - Religions have "belief in belief" - distance from belief, the notion that something can be NOT believed. For rappaport, religion is co-extensive with evolution. With the invention of language. With adaptive measures. "The belief that belief in God is so important that it must not be subjected to the risks of disconfirmation or serious criticism". The supernatural was essential to a subtle, sophisticated, and pervasive worldview, and was experienced on a daily basis by sane, intelligent people whose outlook on the universe was no less coherent than our own.\u8221\'94 "intuitively correct" for some cultures rather than needing a creed. (Striving for unity) (rappaport) - "Material and social conditions affect the willingness of the members of the community to participate in, amongst other things, the rituals that establish or accept the ultimate sacred postulates. " - they were deployed in new ways, with complex symbolic meaning becoming attached to them." - Morris-Kay - body decoration as one of the earliest forms. Could have originated as camouflafe - Morris Kay - "putative proto-art artefacts" - \u8220\'93human cognition and symbolling activity, as well as anatomy, were fully modern by that time." Morris Kay talking about early art, \u8220\'93artistic behaviour\u8221\'94, not sure when - "we have limited information on the origin and evolution of this aspect of human culture". such responses to the natural world were socialised and instrumentalised by "early humans and their competency for culture" (Mellman, 2012), their narratives made communal "beyond individual understanding" (Krippendorf, 1989). Dennett sees the externalisation of the intentional stance as the start of \u8220\'93proto-religion\u8221\'94, and religious belief. Morris-Kay - it is difficult to say where utilitarianism and art (boundaries) were found. "The social context of humans has universal elements. Those relating to survival, reproduction and religion have been alluded to in this article. The religious element is specifically communicated to us through parietal art but the spiritual aspect portrayed here seems to encompass limited aspects of life and death." - Sugiyama's concept of narratives as means of "cultural transmission" (Boyer, 2001). - leading to "a well-designed few" concepts, characters and narratives \endash  material which had 'resonance' - surviving through generations, changing from "free-floating rationales" to "carefully-crafted reasons", \u8220\'93the evolved product of many adjustments\u8230\'85 the raw materials of religion\u8221\'94 (Dennett, 2007) - \u8220\'93Concentrate and institutionalise magical powers within a larger religious context.\u8221\'94 Harari - move from spirits -> gods in agricultural revolutions. With agriculture, we stopped looking at animals and started to look at ourselves. " the evolution of technical skills, combined with the evolution of modern cognition, " - "The neural changes that provided our ancestors with the imagination to understand, through logic, the continued existence of something that is no longer visible, together with the anatomical attributes that enabled them to outrun prey over long distances, would have had a genuine evolutionary advantage. Without these survival-enhancing functional origins, it is unlikely that we would have the neural equipment to create art." - "The social context of humans has universal elements" \endash  "survival, death, reproduction, life' - "allow for the possibility that most early art may have had a ritual or religious significance" - What she calls \u8216\'91artistic behaviour\u8217\'92 - when did it become art? Not sure, intermingling of the cocnepts. We decorate useful objects, by Morris-Kay's standards. Though we lack documents about the earliest manifestations of narrative among higher primates, it is reasonable to assume that language capacities, storytelling abilities, and human cultures co-evolved in symbiotic relation with each other. Dautenhahn (2003) attributes the need to tell stories to the complex social organizations of humans, compared to that of apes, while Turner (1996) argues that humans did not start telling stories as the result of developing language, but rather that language was developed in response to the need to tell stories. Practicality of Greek religious belief (in LRB) - a "modernist project" - books that "analyse religion as a social process" - "continuous with other forms of normative social activity, liable to change" - both had a 'reflective dimension' - i.e. a layer of belief and a separation. Greek religion "fundamentally sustained by tactical improvisation, opportunist reinvention and reverence for a tradition that no one owned or understood' - Cunning-folk \u8220\'93generally believed in their own powers\u8221\'94 (smith). Lily Alexander - World-Building As Ritual - We have always done it - it is part of being human. A "timeless network". IT connects us to our past, helps us handle big social problems through simulation and lets us look ahead to new possibilities for species. Lucien LEvy-Bruhl - "prelogical consciousness" - he was talking about "fantasy [as] innate to this mental conciousness". She gives an overview of early twentieth centiry thought about fictionality, its role in art and religion, the origins of art. Coming from a concern of distinuighing fiction from reality. All these people. "evolved into the narrative-visual worlds of literature and the arts". Saw early worlds as syncretic -combining art, philosophy and religion. No distinction. "imaginary worlds were proto-art, proto-philosophy and a precursor to faith, helping humans to shape the most 'beneficial' forms of communication with their 'cooperative' gods\u8221\'94 - can you "unt[ie] the knots of fiction and reality". The difference between imaginary and mythic - semi-real. Drawing on VIctor Turner's work on ritual and drama. Social and fictive dramas, and the "breaches" between them (Chapter 1). Shamans as negotiators, mediators - evolved into artist-storyteller. Robert Layton - agriculture evolving 7000/9000 years ago. Criticises the \u8220\'93monolithic evolutionary or diffusionist stance\u8221\'94 - the progress from primitive -> civilised in art: he refutes this. His first chapter emphasises the lack of distinction between religious practice and art - aesthetics is a part of religion (p.8) - \u8220\'93the underlying iconology of art in smalll-scale socieities is frequently embedded in religion\u8221\'94. Dennett has an evolutionary perspective - lots of people disagree with it, including me: certainly it has changed, but IMPROVED? \u8220\'93Ideas and values\u8221\'94 in art have a social function in small-scale societies, an everyday function. \u8220\'93The environment permits social systgems of a certain level of complexity to develop\u8221\'94 - \u8220\'93art and ritual can form complementary media\u8221\'94 - durkheim - \u8220\'93social life\u8230\'85 is made possible only by a vast symbolism\u8221\'94 Hitt - }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0\cf1 He is talking about "art's relationship with nature" - dates back "to antiquity" Harvey - }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs22\b1\i0\cf1	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs22\b1\i0\cf1 "hiow does the activity called 'believing manifest itself?" "Not only scientists... test and experiment with claims, ideas, interpretations, teachings and experiences) - drawing on Latour 2010}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs22\b1\i0\cf1	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs22\b1\i0\cf1 Tylor's view was changed to mean 'lesser' religions - he saw all religions as animist in some way.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f1\fs22\b1\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b1\i0\cf1 LRB article - Greek religion as in some ways playful, distanced but continuous with other social activity \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93continuous with other forms of normative social activity\u8230\'85 characterised by the same impulses towards maintiaining group cohesion and hierarchies\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b1\i0\cf1
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b1\i0\cf1
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b1\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 She talks about the "Myth and ritual" school (northrop frye, Campbell) - the ritualistic, repetitive structures of all narratives. She sees literature as emerging directly from ritual (with Greeks) - drama - deus-ex-machina. The process of ritual reflected in storytelling practicies (Catharsis, anagorisis, third-person perspective etc.). "cornerstone postulate" that drama came from ritual. Aristotle merely observing what was already happening in his culture.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\ltrch\loch \ls5\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 EXAMPLES OF PRACTICES - zoomorphic figuration of the Lowenmensch, character-based, tied to hunting in environment, Gary Zabel talking about "therianthropes," in the - "we have limited information on the origin and evolution of this aspect of human culture" Lascaux caves - human-animal composites, \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Humans use animals to transcend the confines of self and species; they also enlist them to symbolize, dramatize, and illuminate aspects of humans\u8217\'92 experience and fantasy\u8221\'94, \u8220\'93the japanese kami may copulate and procreate, argue, fight, have ambitions, seek to be the most important deity\u8221\'94. Fritz and Tosello, 2015 - hutning and art were closely linked. We \u8220\'93venerated forms of landscape\u8221\'94 - Macfarlane. Gibson - The early confluence of human and animal, no rigid distinction between them in tribal life. Shamans becoming animals to navigate sacred woprlds. Nature, in this view of the cosmos, is an extension of human culture, not an alien realm; even though humans and animals no longer speak the same language and must work at communicating, relationships between them are social and cultural, and imbued with vast spiritual significance." Relationships with animal populations, individual animals, forests, individual trees - a changing granularity of scale. Combined with the idea of the numinous. A genius in general was a specific instance of a general divine aura. Neal Alexander = Talking about \u8220\'93genius loci\u8221\'94 - the guardian spirit, the spirit of place. Complex meanings, not quite characters, but with agency and intent. And lares - household spirits. A \u8220\'93specifically spiritual conception of places\u8230\'85 zones of encounter with the divine\u8221\'94. Linked to Greek daimons - nature spirits Hesiod - \u8220\'93good beings who dispense riches\u8230\'85 they remain invisible, known only by their acts.\u8221\'94 Distinct from gods Plato\u8217\'92s symposium - sees them as psychopomps - Socrates\u8217\'92 daimon is synonymous with self-consciousness. Tied both to place and mind. Heraclitus - \u8220\'93character is for man his daimon\u8221\'94. In Japan, anything which appears impressive inspires a sense of awe, or exhibits a life0force. Include animals, and inanimate objects, even celestial bodies. Not just humans. 'persons'. Neal Alexander = Talking about \u8220\'93genius loci\u8221\'94 - the guardian spirit, the spirit of place. Complex meanings, not quite characters, but with agency and intent. And lares - household spirits. A \u8220\'93specifically spiritual conception of places\u8230\'85 zones of encounter with the divine\u8221\'94. Linked to Greek daimons - nature spirits Hesiod - \u8220\'93good beings who dispense riches\u8230\'85 they remain invisible, known only by their acts.\u8221\'94 Distinct from gods Plato\u8217\'92s symposium - sees them as psychopomps - Socrates\u8217\'92 daimon is synonymous with self-consciousness. Tied both to place and mind. Heraclitus - \u8220\'93character is for man his daimon\u8221\'94. In Japan, anything which appears impressive inspires a sense of awe, or exhibits a life0force. Include animals, and inanimate objects, even celestial bodies. Not just humans. 'persons'. Morris-Kay: Art revolving around reproduction, shamanism (the mixing of animal and human, therianthropes). Westling - "humans belong to the whole community of living creatures\u8221\'94 - in many societies animism is closely associated with religious and mythological beliefs (Harvey, 2005). Narratives in religion (Finnern). -", biblical characters often serve as role models in regard to belief, behavior and experiences." church services resemble theater performances (see the overview of Meyer-Blanck 2011: 374\endash 87). "by helping people identify visual landmarks, stories can serve as a mnemonic and navigational tool. The famous "songlines" of Australian aborigines have, for instance, been said to help native populations orient themselves in a landscape that outsiders find disturbingly deprived of differentiating features.5 In animist, polytheistic, or simply rural systems of belief, narrative also differentiates space by associating certain regions with certain creatures about whom scary tales are told: haunted houses, nefarious water spirits, witches meeting deep in the forests, cemeteries visited by the undead, or elves dancing on the moor. Through all these phenomena, narrative connects to physical space." - Truth places - Place came to extol theme, to reinforce truths that were by no means self-evident - the nature of belief is contingent on a construction of reality around us - not on \u8216\'91facts\u8217\'92 that have no degree of distance. Competing ideologies. People MANUFACTURE places into sites of truth. \u8220\'93Kept alive the belief.. [that it is] real history and culturally important - \u8220\'93The very idea of landscape is a manifestation of a specific relationship between human subjects and their agency within space\u8221\'94 - Talks about renaissance landscape as privileging the human perspective more. A history of animism as a useful conception of the system around us. Extended to environments, not just individual animals. From totem animals to gods, from totemism/fetishism to polytheism, where gods became "incarnations of natural phenomena". living in their own realm, a mirror of the aspect of the real world that they represent. narrtives "serve to clarify the man's symbolic map of reality". There must be intrinsic and embedded narratives in all fictional worlds, she says. The story activates the world.Not a "landscaping hobby" - }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "The author argues that the architecture of Neolithic stone tombs acts as a kind of camera lens focussing attention on landscape features such as rock outcrops, river valleys, mountain spurs in their immediate surroundings. These monuments played an active role in socializing the landscape and creating meaning in it."}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 SOCIAL FUNCTIONS: "vital function [of religion] in the evolution and maintenance of human societies", "self-regulation". \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8216\'91I will argue there that social contract, morality, and the establishment of convention are intrinsic to ritual\u8217\'92s form\u8230\'85" The ecosystem as a religious concept.\u8221\'94 - Strathern's 'dividual' ("a person constitutive of relationshops") - the etiology, structure, and attributes of logos (transcendent or higher truths) that bind human beings into meaningful and enduring social orders and enable the trustworthy communication necessary for a shared social and cultural life - "vital function [of religion] in the evolution and maintenance of human societies" - agan - \u8220\'93the myths and folklore of many premodern cultures has explanatory or at least mnemonic value. In stories that everyone can appreciate or even witness, they encode the environment.\u8221\'94 - Layton - \u8220\'93horton sees social life as the source of the models small-scale communities frequently employ in order to conceptualise the nature of the les-readily grasped forces they experience\u8221\'94. Social life is more easily modelled/organised, whereas nature is not, therefore the former becomes the model for the latterr. Less applicable for big socieites, as social life is unpredictable. (put in later. - \u8216\'91religion can be looked upon as an extension of the field of people\u8217\'92s social relationships beyond the confines of human society\u8217\'92}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Religion = "this-worldly interactions between, for examples, humans and trees or sweet potatoes" - Harvey redefining what religion might mean (2013) based on the work of Te Pakak Tawhai's - non-Western approaches }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Nadasdy - "hunting as a process of reciprocal exchange between hunters and opther-than-human persons" - "By accepting such gifts from their animal benefactors, hunters incur a debt that must be repaid through the performance of certain ritual practices (e.g.Hallowell 1960; Speck 193" "e food taboos, ritual feasts, and prescribed methods for disposing of animal remains, as well as injunctions against overhunting and talking badly about, or playing with, animals"}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "hunting... as... a long-term relationship"}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Tylor\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92s definitions of animism - a fundamental element of all religion.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 NARRATIVE/CHARACTER-BASED: \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8216\'91Genius loci\u8217\'92, what Neal Alexander calls a \u8216\'91sense of place\u8217\'92, "intermeshing of human and animal traits" (Hodgson), animals as part of landscape, observation and storytelling as ritual practice for understanding and using animals, "an intimate psycho-emotional interdependency with predators and prey", "highly arousing/emotive image-based practices", also narrative. "the existence of spirits, deities and gods, who represented early human's symbolic systems". Also the idea of 'realms', each god having realms 'levels'. the "narrative Deity" of a world. Joanna Hubbs on the concept of Mother Earth to the Russians - complex, interactive, moody, good and bad. The 'Mother Worship' book as a reference. The power of women, of mother earth, of goddesses and gods being associated with the earth... Not just representing landscapes, but processes - disease etc. My idea of landscape is complicated by process - it is systemic rather than merely topological. }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 List of god = place/process examples (need academic references though)}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Westphal - the fuzziness between scientific space realtions and fictional ones. }
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\ri-998\sa820\sl360\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs20\b0\i0\cf1 Jane Bennett as an advocate that inanimate objects can have 'viotalioty' - can have tendencies, trajectories, impediments and blocakeg Alfred Gell's 'secondary agents' - the agency tht things possess when they become enmeshed in social relationshiops" - or is it self-suffieicnet? Acts upon people 2010, 1. - The Inka loved rocks. Animate. Made offerings to mountains.- "Fetishism as imbuing objects with power - not the thing itself, what it manifests. The landscape, though, has actual power. But the creature cannot really act upon you? ANT is about connection, communication, rather than something pre-existing. Am I anthropomorphising these ideas of 'actors' and 'agents' too much? Not like human agency? But we DO humanise them.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\sa820\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "Territory is place-making, we try to find the optimal site for all conflicting}
\par\pard\plain \ri-998\sl360\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1 and varying possibilities." (difference between space and place.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\sa820\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Phenom of landscape - - "The idea of landscape as a set of relational places linked by pathways, movements and narratives".}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\sa820\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Withers - spatial turn - \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93place as social practice\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\sa820\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 " space is not simply setting; it produces symbolic and emotional meaning, organizes plots, directs patterns of reader engagement, and orients readers effectively to both the spaces within stories and those weencounter and inhabit."}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\ri-998\sa820\sl360\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs20\b0\i0\cf1 Sharov's paper brings biosemiotics and cybernetics together. Emergence and actor-network theory is a part of this. And systems biolody. and autopoeisis. }
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\ri-998\sa820\sl360\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs20\b0\i0\cf1  Up to geocybernetics.architecture (with reference to Alexander) " the essence of interactions between humans and the environment in patterns and how they evolve into distinct places."}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\ri-998\sa820\sl360\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs20\b0\i0\cf1 Strongly related to systems theory.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\ltrch\loch \ls5\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Reference - Yi-Fu Tuan on space and place - place is humanised.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "understand 'real' places by understanding their fundamental fictionality"}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Astarte - Canaanite godess of fertility}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Tollund Man's goddess}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Ancient Greeks and Gaea}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Vishnu as the universe}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Ra as sun god}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Geb and Nut in egyptian mythology}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Igaluk or Tarqeg - inuit moon man}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 finnish air goddess illmatar}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 chac - mayan rain god}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 xipec totec - aztec spring god}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 death gods - Hades, Osiris, }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 sites both personified as gods and associated with gods}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Your Place Or Mine - Place is created by the nature of the space, and the social and cultural context in which people experience it.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Alderman: Placen Naming - Naming as part of it - toponyms - for navigation but also values, memories and meanings get naturalised. "namuing as symbolic capital" "naming is used to fix the identity of places"}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 RELATIONSHIP WITH ENVIRONMENT BECOMES INSTRUMENTAL THROUGH RITUAL: Edward Shils (1975) stated that " Sacred rituals, he suggested, are central to the power of all social institutions", " \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93performance, formality, invariance, inclusion of both acts and utterances, and encoding by other than the performers\u8221\'94" - In The Philosophy of Literary Form, rhetorician Kenneth Burke (1974: 4) reinforces our historical understanding of the magic of words: \u8220\'93The magical decree is implicit in all language; for the mere act of naming an object or situation decrees that it is to be singled out as such and such rather than as somethingother. Hence, I think that an attempt to eliminate magic would involve us in the elimination of the vocabulary itself as a way of sizing up reality.\u8221\'94 - "True rhetoric, Burke (1969) argued. \u8220\'93 Words have the power to send men to their death in war, abandon their home and families and adopt political structures that will enslave them." On Rappaport - "just as liturgy confers extraordinary meaning on the experience of ritual participation, so the heightened quality of that experience imbues the associated liturgical representations with a significance beyond that of ordinary, discursive language." Interested in ecosystems, and rituals arising from that - mateiral and non-material, organic and not, animal and not, all interacting. A regulatory impulse. Designed to balance an ecosystem. Liturgy is reliable, can be used over and over again. "the adaptive value of rituals in maintaining carrying capacity, the persistence of species, human nutritional well-being, and the frequency of warfare within small-scale societies." " it constitutes an invariant sequence of acts and utterances (form), and (2) its participants must actually perform according to these invariant sequences. Rituals impose a standard of conduct that goes beyond the will of individual participants and constitutes the foundation of all convention. Ritual is the basic \u8220\'93social act.\u8221\'94 " - Rituals allow language to be tamed, to create trust. "\u8220\'93\u8230\'85rituals and sequences of rituals as \u8216\'91liturgical orders\u8217\'92\u8230\'85\u8221\'94 - Heavily related to language and evolves FROM language as a 'liturgical' function. "\u8230\'85the performance of more or less invariant sequences of formal acts and utterances not entirely encoded by the performers logically entails the establishment of convention, the sealing of social contract, the construction of the integrated conventional orders we shall call Logoi\u8230\'85the investment of whatever it encodes with morality, the construction of time and eternity; the representation of a paradigm of creation, the generation of the concept of the sacred and the sanctification of conventional order, the generation of theories of the occult, the evocation of numinous experience, the awareness of the divine, the grasp of the holy, and the construction of orders of meaning transcending the semantic. " - "ritual is taken to be ground from which religious conceptions spring," - rappaport himself - Magick is the connexion of natural agents and patients, answerable each to other, wrought by a wise man, to the bringing forth of such effects as are wonderful to those that know not their causes. The start of magic. These were not just stories, or information relayed - they were active relationships that required constant, storied, narratively coherent interaction between place and person. This is the birth of ritual, magic and supersitious practices. \u8220\'93Prehistoric\u8221\'94 roots of magic (Arcana Mundi). Place did things to us, so we needed to do things to place. Very rules-driven. Edward Shils (1975) stated that " Sacred rituals, he suggested, are central to the power of all social institutions." - Such practices were invoked within the mental model of place, designed to be a social and controlled interaction with a place or a thing in order to placate it, force it to do something, persuade it, flatter it etc. They made sense within the narratives (Magic is a \u8220\'93complement to our ever-changing construction of reality\u8221\'94 (Arcana Mundi), A \u8220\'93logic\u8221\'94 to magic (arcana mundi)), a set of rules for interacting with the world. and allowed mankind a sense of control and agency in his relationship with place. Bringing the "spiritual or supernatural forces" which our animistic and anthropic tendencies had identified "under the control of human agents" (Frazer, 1891). Magic is all about control, influence and parlay - a fundamentally social relationship with the world and its animistic inhabitants. If social models of explanation are what suits, autocosmically, the understanding of landscape, then social models of action suit our understanding of how to influence it. Magic - a \u8220\'93technique grounded in a belief in powers located in the human soul and in the universe outside ourselves\u8230\'85 imposing human will on nature\u8221\'94. Ritual, which he defines as "the performance of more or less invariant sequences of formal acts and utterances not encoded by the performers," lays the framework for the creation and formulation of religion (Wolf,1999,21). Formality (cf Knight 1998, 1999) ensured that they were taken seriously, that they would work. And often they did work! The system SEEMED to respond back, even though it did not directly, though sometimes it did, for a different \u8216\'91interpretation\u8217\'92 (biosemiotics). \u8220\'93Structures and institutions that previously channelled spiritual belief into rituals that promoted collective identities.\u8221\'94 - For rappaport, ritual is about balancing an 'cybernetic' ecosystem. Creating trust. Not just ways to explain the world \endash  gave us frameworks within which to act towards it \endash  ways that were narratively coherent, and had effects within that particular meaning-sphere. "extraordinary meaning" on own actions, not just what is observed. Stepanek "ritual is taken to be ground from which religious conceptions spring," - rappaport himself These were not just stories, or information relayed - they were active relationships that required constant, storied, narratively coherent interaction between place and person. This is the birth of ritual, magic and supersitious practices. Types of ritual - consecration, apotropaism, purification, respect, gift-giving to place. Everyday things like food preparation, health concerns, navigation, hunting etc. Such practices were invoked within the mental model of place, designed to be a social and controlled interaction with a place or a thing in order to placate it, force it to do something, persuade it, flatter it etc. Magic is all about control, influence and parlay - a fundamentally social relationship with the world and its animistic inhabitants. If social models of explanation are what suits, autocosmically, the understanding of landscape, then social models of action suit our understanding of how to influence it. Magic - a \u8220\'93technique grounded in a belief in powers located in the human soul and in the universe outside ourselves\u8230\'85 imposing human will on nature\u8221\'94. In particular \endash  ritual \endash  actions that were the ways that you could interact with those individuals, those personified spaces, "the construction of orders of meaning transcending the semantic." Keep things in order \endash  the sacred and the profane, the numinous, controlling life, interactions between self and space and others, through these categories. Ritual is the basic \u8220\'93social act.\u8221\'94 " Magic is a \u8220\'93complement to our ever-changing construction of reality\u8221\'94 (Arcana Mundi) allowed mankind a sense of control and agency in his relationship with place. Bringing the "spiritual or supernatural forces" which our animistic and anthropic tendencies had identified "under the control of human agents" (Frazer, 1891).Heavily related to language and evolves FROM language as a 'liturgical' function. They are "invariant sequences of formal acts and utterances" "establishment of convention", "the construction of the integrated conventional orders", have specific effects, "formality, invariances, inclusion of both acts and utterances, and encoding by other than the performers\u8221\'94" - i.e. are SOCIAL. A "social contract... the establishment of convention". What Rappaport calls "liturgy" \endash  "establish and constitute order", "directives" \endash  "heightened quality of experience... a significance beyond that of ordinary, discursive language", repeatable "Rituals impose a standard of conduct that goes beyond the will of individual participants and constitutes the foundation of all convention. " Appealing to rules. Towards characters. They are social actions, fundamentally. generated by the HADD yielded candidates to press into service as decision aids, in divination, or as shaman's accomplices, in health maintenance, for instance. Fixed rules. "They must cause an event to happen through means that are symbolic rather than material. Yet the event is not merely a symbolic, but a literal transformation, and it can affect material objects." Ryan talks about a 'religious' point of view that distinguishes between profane everyday and the sacred - how does this relate to the idea of systematising? "Ritual achieves its efficiency through a manipulation of these hidden forces" a "fine line between ritual and superstition". Both rituals and narrative make us human by building community: ritual coordinates activity into a collaborative event, while narrative requires joint attention to the words of the storyteller.' - ritual and narrative both make sense of the world. - Points that ritual tries to act on the senselessness of life, narrative to reflect upon it. She says ritual is symbolic rather than practical - is this true? WHen did it stop becoming practical? Coming on to re-sestablish myth, to tell stories and re-live times through enactment - like narrative. She talks about the difference between believing in rituals and 'just going through the motions'. Ritual goes beyond representation, and enacts things symbolically through performance. The boundaires of 'symbolism' are very hazy. Again, this is about the concept of belief. says it is a 'chicken-and-egg question' as to whether myth or ritual came first - stories about the world, or rituals to enact the worlld first? - She says it is more ambi-generative, with rituals spawning narratives and vice-versa. But narrative gives birth to ritual more commonly. Rituals based on myth. Calls it a "feedback loop" - She points out that the definition of ritual is in flux - but perhaps we can talk about a 'ritualivity'? Koentiz calls ones with lessons rather than endings (about phenomena) "etiological oral narratives". The role of ambiguity, need to make clear, in ritualistic, narrative, autocosmic relationships with landscapes. The world does not always speak back. Lily Alexander - A semi-symbolic world - uses interactive media - in here "3we often act physically and physiologically" - We interact, use our bodies, react with real emotion and bodily response. - "semi-symbolic, semi-real participation" - started with early man's ritual, now we do it today. Talks about rituals being important to FWB - provide the symbolic ingredients of rtiauls, the spaces in which they take place, and narrative structure. a "transformative symblic space" is created.rituaks are "operational systems" of early religious beliefs - they enabled acting in world, but also built that world through action. "the essence of ritual is the synchronization of the community" and going into "unfamiliar territories" to grow personally and enter next stages of life. States that ritual requires your phyisology to involved in other worlds - in order for it to work - just like with books. "novel physical experiences". But rituals do not have to be oversensoryload. Can be everyday as well. Ties it to defamiliarization of formalists and Aristotle's 'astonishment' - need enchantment for this - "art-as-ritual". talks about "indirect" communication as part of ritual. "Symbolic gestures" and resulting "sign language" of gods through environment. For her, rituals enact new social identities for communitys and individuals, improving society. Ryan On Ritual talks about the links between language and magic. "Just as narrative divides the world into distinct symbolic domains, ritual relies on divisions in space, time, and society. " - Mountains Of The Mind - One goes to environments to challenge them, to perform within them. Mountain-climbing as an example; \u8220\'93an epic endeavour: an encounter with the utmost of all foes, Nature\u8221\'94 (Macfarlane). How we imagine mountains separately from engaging with them.Pitting oneself against a character. \u8220\'93Glaciers open themselves up to you when you look closely at them.\u8221\'94 \u8220\'93Invisible attacks of altitude\u8221\'94 (character as enviro). Modernity provides a luxury to look at landscapes as something other than utilitarian (p.14). \u8220\'93The space felt vast and malevolently active, as though it were inhaling me; pulling me off into its emptiness.\u8221\'94 \u8220\'93When we look at a landscape, we do not see what is there, but largely what we think is ther.\u8221\'94 - \u8220\'93What we call a mountain is thus in fact a collaboration of the physical forms of the world with the imagination of humans - a mountain of the mind\u8221\'94 - \u8220\'93They do not kill deliberately, nor do they deliberately please: any emotional properties which they possess are vested in them by human imaginations\u8221\'94 - \u8220\'93They are also the objects of human perception; they have been imagined into existence down the centuries. - \u8220\'93Not the ways that people have gone into the mountains, but the ways that they have imagined they were going into them\u8221\'94 Highly related to Nan Shepherd. \u8220\'93For many nineteenth century mountaineers, then, being among the mountains was little more than a roleplaying game\u8230\'85 in which grown men could play at danger\u8221\'94 Weber/McF - \u8216\'91wonder\u8217\'92 is a state in which we are comfortable with not knowing. Macfarlane states that we invest thoughts and emotions into landscape in Wild Places (smith\u8217\'92s reference). Gods as communicative artefacts. Layton - \u8220\'93ritual as a mode of enacting religious thought\u8221\'94. Drawing on Lienhardt - don\u8217\'92t necessarily believe that events/phenomena in the world are changed by ritual, but rather that ritual will change the tribe\u8217\'92s perception of those events. The height of symbolism. Tilley - \u8220\'93Landscapes have agency in relation to persons" - Mikmaq View Of Animals - 'AS siblings and persons', 'reciprocity' in animal-human relationships - as part of the environment, Humans as both part of (engaging in) the environment, but also distinct from it through the necessity of perception of self/other (same in digital environments) - Animistic outlook - 'everything is alive' "geographic locations can have an identity, personality, and spirit" - Animals willingly sacrificing themselves through respect. No overfishing etc. - balance. Harvey Talks as animism necessitating ritual behaviour to navigate its fundamentally social aspect. Harvey 0 "performative acts in which people engage with other species or with other things. Bruce Janz talks about how place is a "spontaneous event rather than... a static, neutral stage"}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b1\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1 Continue Through History}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b1\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b1\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b1\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1   - Cunning-folk \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93generally believed in their own powers\u8221\'94 (smith).}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-360\ri-998\sl360\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch \ls6\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 ANNE SITTING AT A MIDPOINT - examples of how narrative, ritualistic relationships to ecosystemic ecologies surrounding us, both animals and whole environments, evolved, particularly as art and religion became more separate. The \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93long 18th century\u8221\'94 (Davies) - time of social upheaval, battle between science and magic, storytelling, anthropomorphism and ritual still a big part of life - a place where the cracks show - It was in this period that "the world of popular belief and custom" (Hutton, 1999) competed with science, the state and religion for control of people's imaginations. This was perhaps best symbolised by the passing of the Witchcraft Act in 1735, a rubicon which alters the crime of witchcraft from one of diabolical interference to that of an "explicitly fraudulent practice" (Davies, 2007). A really messy time, science and art and religion coalescing. Different systems, different landscapes. Demonology ended at end of 1600s, before \u8220\'93a working system of belief at the height of its powers\u8221\'94. A complicated time. "religions became domesticated" - not just ideas we had - now we curated them. TIE TO RESONANCE }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1 FIRST PARA: }{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1 A reference to Anne\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92s world, the environment she lives in, her dislike of the moor, the particulars of people\u8217\'92s movements - space and place a big part of this. Anne living at a time when the changing relationship between person and place was particularly heightened. Particularly its relationship to our imagination. Bothy project residency stanage edge visit. @ start - Anne lying at a crossroads. The view on the moor - nature as dangerous, as possessed of intent. Unpredictable. All around react to it in different ways. People\u8217\'92s idea of the moor but few people go out there anymore. The pixies she lists. The cunning fol;k she lists.  Draw it back to the moor.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\ltrch\loch \ls6\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 EVERYDAY SUPERSTITIONS - the pixies which she lists (beliefs in fairies, demons, witches), religion, mixed with everyday religious belief - \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93the incomprehensible yet present activity of a higher power\u8221\'94 - \u8220\'93The whole air is full of souls\u8221\'94. Ankarloo and Clark 1999 - \u8220\'93send dreams, signs and illnesses to men\u8221\'94 . \u8220\'93Fear of things invivisble is the natural seed of that which every one in himself calleth religion.\u8221\'94 Proceeding from a tradition. Not as gone as everybody said it was (examples?) - Fictional characters tied to natural systems, lying behind natural systems. Petrified rocks, prevalance of \u8216\'91the devil\u8217\'92s\u8217\'92 placenames in a dictionary of english folklore. The role of the cunning folk - instrumentalising and narratively contextualising nature - \u8220\'93Magic was essentially a way of dealing with all sorts of problems in life\u8221\'94 (Arcana Mundi) - Using the suspicions and imaginations of their clients to divine properly, to employ the placebo effect, to give proper narrative context to their imaginings. Medical has always had a lot of superstitions - the body as unknown system - body as enviornment - character as environment. \u8220\'93. \u8220\'93The incorporation of christian beliefs and prayers\u8221\'94. \u8216\'91Low\u8217\'92 magic. Theatrics - an accomplice dressed as a devil in a pit. Clark points out that belief in witchcraft was in no way universal - but it was powerful. But fitted in with the entire worldview on nature, history, religion and politics. Hutton (95) links the sorts of ailments that charmers focus on to the human nervous system - rapport with patient led to psychosomatic response - Theo Brow (1950s) - noted success rate to be total. \u8220\'93Thinking With Demons\u8221\'94 is a very apt title. \u8220\'93Described and accounted for contemporary problems in what seemed an accurate way and presented attractive solutions to them.\u8221\'94 Resonance of the old beliefs coming through, despite science. Point to modern studies of ritual being affective (Keinan, Norton, Norton and Gino, Vamos). \u8220\'93Amalgam of fortune-teller, astrologer, herbalist, medical doctor, veterinary surgeon and witch-doctor. They could detect stolen property; identify witches, thieves and future husbands; procure love; unbewitch the bewitched; dispense protective charms; and at least some could cast horoscopes.\u8221\'94 (Harding)\u8220\'93Fiscally stagnated agrarian communities\u8221\'94. Keith Thomas suggests, the \u8216\'91cunning man\u8217\'92s greatest asset was his client\u8217\'92s imagination; and in view of what is known today about the potentialities of any cure in which both doctor and patient have complete faith, its power cannot be. Familiars as characters, as real \u8216\'91persons\u8217\'92 - a representative, a psychopomp, of these systems that underlie everyday life. Had an intimate, emotional relationship with them (millar, wilby). Most often animals. \u8220\'93General popular disengagement from fairies during the eighteenth cnetury\u8221\'94 - not referred to as much anymore. Fictional characters tied to natural systems, lying behind natural systems. Spontaneous folk belief, not based on elite writings: (Wilby) - not an \u8216\'91elite construction\u8217\'92. Part of a continuum which included many different sorts of spirits - (Wilby) \u8220\'93Categories of spirit overlapped considerably.\u8221\'94 - Familiar denoted \u8220\'93both the witch\u8217\'92s demonic spirit and\u8230\'85 personal helping spirits\u8221\'94 - \u8220\'93But familiars and fairies were believed to possess a range of supernatural powers that were considered capable of affecting almost any aspect of human life\u8221\'94 - Parallel to the hobman, \u8220\'93living alone\u8230\'85 either alongside humans in their houses\u8221\'94 - \u8220\'93The affectionate and intimate relationship often found between the witch/cunning woman and her familiar/fairy\u8221\'94 - \u8220\'93Others claimed to encounter them on a more regular basis, commonly developing a particularly close relationship with one or more spirits.\u8221\'94 - \u8220\'93Its associations had been traditionally tied to theological and folkloric contexts: It was the domain of sin, death, and decay; the stage for witchcraft; the habitat of weird and ferocious creatures\u8221\'94 (Miller 3) - Anne as confusing old and new - gravity as an intentional force. 206 - charts the diminishing anthropomorphism of religion since ancient times. The indoors the only way to escape it. Re. Familiars (rifford) - \u8220\'93independent life of its own, it remains closely linked to the individual.\u8221\'94 swamp dragon talks about historical dualism. Most interesting thing about all this is that, as with the autocosmic tendency generally, there are few distinct lines between imaginative relationships with place in aesthetic and non-aesthetic practices. These characters, and these narratives, to these elements of the populace, not only had a direct effect on people's lives, but could be directly affected and influenced by the individual through the use of charms, architectural wards (Davies, 2007, Hoggard, 2016), healing practises (Harding, 2016) and visits to 'cunning folk' such as Anne (Davies, 2009), who would "provide... magical services" and provide "attractive solutions" to their problems (Clark, 1999). As with all religious or superstitious belief, these narratives provided imaginative stimuli to a populace that, like all human beings on an evolutionary level, desired to know how the world worked, and provided them with models which were satisfactorily "coherent" with what they experienced, in Oatley's sense of the word. They were extrapolated at the individual and social levels, and possess strong elements of what we consider important to all stories today; engaging plots and 'resonant' characters such as God, the Devil and the witch (Roper, 2000). In a similar, yet more direct manner than modern, aesthetic narratives, they excited the evolved survivalist strategies of the human mind and body in a confusing and complex world; providing instruction and example of dangers and opportunities which chimed with the social context of the day; and, most importantly, provided means of instructional agency for those who wished to capitalise on these opportunities or avoid these dangers. By performing ritual or superstitious actions, in context with these narratives, the world was made a "safer, less hostile place" (Wilson, 2016). Succour and understanding were offered by both religious teaching and superstitious traditions, providing the elements for a lively extrapolation of the "storyworld" (Ryan, 2014) in which they found themselves living and the characters that inhabited it; and the ritualistic behaviour at the heart of both religious and superstitious practices provided them with a coherently-true agency in that world, and with those characters, that would allow them to survive it. We were distanced from it. \u8220\'93social consensus\u8221\'94 about magic. (arcana mundi). \u8220\'93It is hard enough for the scholar to know what he himself believes. It is next to impossible for him to discover what other people really believe.\u8221\'94 - \u8220\'93. For these people the forest spirit is a very real thing. It is not the folklorist's job to confirm or deny this reality.\u8221\'94 - lofstedt While it seems clear that religion, a key antecedent (even in Wolf's view) to modern aesthetics, provides a link between mundane and aesthetic imagination, the concept of 'belief' provides a further disjunction. On the surface, religious and superstitious imaginative participation lacks 'aesthetic distance' because it is 'believed'. It is something which is serves a didactic function directly connected to 'real' life, and that the nature of 'faith' lacks the distance which is required (in Wolf's conception) to engage with a work of narrative art. However, some study of the nature of 'belief' in religious practice muddies the concept, and reveals further the continuum between religious imaginative incorporation and the 'reception contract' of literary theory. Plate (2010), following on from the work of Huizinga (1955) and Caillois (1961), considers the practice of religion to be the playing of a game, a "serious business" "in a world that is all their own" (Paden, 2015) which nonetheless includes an implicit, perhaps unconscious detachment. To see religious beliefs as uncomplicated 'credulity' ignores the aesthetic element of their construction and materia and, as Boyer posits, makes great understatement of the human capacity for imagination. It displays a "problematic" (2013), anthropological arrogance towards the minds of those in the past or a more 'primitive' present, such as "traditional societies" (2013). Boyer reminds us that religious beliefs rely on very spurious or partial evidence, and that the "complex cognitive processes" (2013) involved in maintaining unequivocal belief in things which seem only tangentially related seems to be logically bankrupt. Alongside Tanya Luhrmann, he puts forward a concept of religious belief, and the general imagining which both originated it and sustained it, remarkably similar to current theories of literary reception and to philosopher Tamar Gendler's concept of 'alief' (2008), whereby we act, feel and perform actions as if we believed something were true, even though subconsciously we know that it is not. Objective truth of religion, for Luhrmann and Boyer, is irrelevant, as with other fictions; what matters is the "reflective truth" (2013); how the aesthetics and socio-narrative cachets of such beliefs can be maintained, how stable the 'reception contract' between individual and belief system is within their "emotional community" (Rosenwein, 2002) (a concept that bears striking resemblance to Fish's "interpretative communities" (1982), and whether the narratives and characters are, indeed, 'resonant'; how well they pander to our "evolutionary adaptive cognitive functions" which Kapogiannis and his colleagues (2009) see as fundamental to religious belief; "drawing on associative facilities constitutive of consciousness, and experiencing them in ways which are neither entirely recreational nor entirely credulous." Often, such a strategy has a direct 'subsistence' utility in Sugiyama's conception: in my research for Anne's narrative, I came across Roberta Harding's account of gallows superstitions in 18th century England; an 'emotional community' where a sympathetic belief in the power of the dead's touch to heal served as a psychosocial response to the lack of healthcare available for the poor (2016). Nor can we, as Wolf attempts to do, draw the 'division of aesthetic distance' between the past and the present; religious belief, superstition and other troubling epistemological states cannot "be relegated to a previous period in human history" (Subbotsky, 2014) by "simplistic, deterministic views of a transition from a sacralized to a secular universe" (Gaskill, 2017). Despite our innate sense of historical superiority, we are biologically and neurologically little changed from those early humans that Dennett described, nor from the 'credulous' inhabitants of the 18th century that Anne and her 'spyrit' treated (Davies, 1999). \u8220\'93Reason has not ended our relationship with magic\u8221\'94 (Davies, 2009), and superstitions \u8220\'93continue to be part of the cultural landscape\u8221\'94 (Harding, 2016). Studies have consistently shown high levels of \u8220\'93pervasive\u8221\'94 'belief' in paranormal phenomena such as ghosts, aliens or the power of astrology, even amongst supposedly 'rational' people such as science students (Sugarman et al, 2011). Superstitious beliefs can greatly affect the decisions of 'rational' people to donate organs (Vamos, 2010) and assess their own health (Boardman and Sonnenberg, 2014), even though we have the educational and cultural 'distance' from these beliefs-as-fictions. Religion, in particular, being the most likely the 'joining point' between 'unaesthetic' and 'aesthetic' narrative in human history (which, according to Mellman, happened extremely recently (2012)), shows significant ambivalence when it comes to the concept of 'belief', with research pointing to something quite like the playful "generation of temporary belief" that Childs & Fowler see as the 'reception contract' with narrative artworks, rather than a completely hermetic, unimpeachable and undistant 'delusion' as has traditionally been thought. "Thirdly, and most importantly, people continued to believe in witchcraft as a source of illness." "Cunning-folk were the nexus of a complex set of beliefs which sought to explain, prevent and reverse misfortune. " Tied to natural things, natural remedies - the witch as a manifestation of nature. Witch as a depersonalised issue of nature.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\ltrch\loch \ls6\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 SCIENCE AND \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8216\'91ELITE\u8217\'92 CONCERNS - the \u8216\'91sublime\u8217\'92 (starting with Burke and Kant) - reactions that we less \u8216\'91low\u8217\'92 to environment. Burke saw it as aesthetic (pain/threat), Kant saw it as a response of reason. "pre-Romantics in the eighteenth century saw in the sublime irrationality, a connection which gave them an opportunity to fight the predominant rationalism of the epoch." Tied to spiritualism (Mr. Knole) - \u8220\'93a subjective encounter with something which is absolutely great or absolutely menacing\u8221\'94 - Sublime in art - representing sublime objects or the "avowal of the failure of language" - the low were also dealing with the sublime - " We can list some genres apt to evoke the sublime: odes, hymns, psalms, benedictions, maledictions, epitaphs, invocations, swearing, puzzles, etc. (cf. Deguy). The aforementioned linguistic means all presuppose an encounter of the subject with something beyond his or her imagination". The sublime is the systematic. - Riding and llewellyn - "an expression of the unknowable" Compared to understanding nature in superstitious ways. For Burke definitely an aesthetic response - but a response in real life, TO real life. - "On the simplest level, a sublime experience while crossing the Alps is an engagement with landscape" - disorder, unknowability, complexity. The sublime was an aesthetic response to landscape in the age of reason, which sought to break from earlier, superstitious responses to landscape amongst those who could safely observe landscape and whose lives were not bound up in it. - "an exercise in daunting emptiness and the evocation of an alienating landscape to provoke a sense of sublime solitude, a central theme in the Romantic poetry of Wordsworth, Coleridge and others. " Leading on to the sublime, the Romantic - a change in how we perceived nature, tied to both old superstitions, artistic sensibility and new science. A new way of appreciating, imagining and interacting with nature. The characters faded, but the forces did not. In a way, it was going back to animism - the mountain as malevolent. Greatness beyond all. Related to the \u8216\'91picturesque\u8217\'92. Distinct from beauty. Addison. Away from reason. \u8220\'93An agreeable kind of horror\u8221\'94. Viewing these mountains.Burke said beauty and sublimity were mutually exclusive, anda rt could not be sublime.For Kant, beauty has boundaries, and sublime is boundless. Compared to picturesque - coming about with Gilpin in 1782 - . Sublime is about the death of reason in aesthetic judgement - baser human reactions.Pictureque is between beauty and sublime - a way to frame and bound landscape to be affected by it. Go around Britain, look at landscapes - oppose the Grand Tour. Pcturesque more organic than orderly. The ballad. Martin for a history of sublime - The sublime as a function of the landscape\u8217\'92s danger and fragility, its greatness, both as itself and representing something else. Sublime - an evolution of earlier imaginative engagement with landscape - \u8220\'93presents danger without causing harm\u8221\'94. For Kant - we can reason something\u8217\'92s infinity without imagining it. The ultimate failure of imagination to understand another. Both religion and science "involve making logical distinctions, categorizing events and objects, organizing conceptual hierarchies along different levels of abstraction, and engaging in systematic comparisons and contrasts. " People going to and being and acting in landscapes that did not have to. Edmund Burke - first sublime writer - \u8220\'93Burke was interested in our psychic response to things\u8221\'94 \u8220\'93Perhaps the unknown exists most perfectly in anticipation, in the imagionation.\u8221\'94 - if we go to places, we become disappointed. The imagination is best for landscapes and characters. Do we want characters to be be familiar or strange? Both! We started to explorer out into space, and down into the \u8220\'93recesses of the human psyche\u8221\'94- \u8220\'93delighted ibn chaos, intensity, cataclysm, great size, irregularity\u8221\'94. swamp dragon talks about historical dualism - Awlbatch as sublime representative of moor =- picturesque - painting p[ictures of him. The mill as enlightenment, mechanisation. - Wants to get away from superstitious past. - Romanticism in title page. - Moor covered in fences from absentee landlord. The tendency to read human feelings into the landscape in poetry was, in fact, so common in the nineteenth century that the art critic John Ruskin (1897, 3: 161-77) designated it as the "pathetic fallacy." Yet he later provides several examples of his own of agency in landscape. Negative Capability, when directed to non- human entities. As he writes in one of his letters: "if a Sparrow come before my Window I take part in its existince [sic] and pick about the Gravel". Bogost defines between mathematical and dynamic sublimity - the function of time and movement makes a game environment dynamically sublime. It depends whether you are interacting with the systems as to which sublimity is relevant. \u8220\'93Magic is not, essentially, anything; it is what, in particular cutlrual settings, it is construed to be.\u8221\'94 Witchcraft a \u8220\'93relative concept\u8221\'94 (686). Bailey - the boundaries of superstition and belief. An \u8220\'93amphibious\u8221\'94 response. Enlightenment -"rationality conquering nature in the forms of modern science... leading irrevocably to the disenchantment of the world" (eco and geo). The Search For The Picturesque Review - Landscape as enframed, as an aesthetic object, as a representation to be admired rather than lived within. From 1740s onwards there developed a 'taste' for picturesque landscapes,. Before Gilpin, meant 'picturable': after Gilpin, meant beautiful, novel etc. Joseph Addison 'novel or uncommon'. Beautiful,Sublime,Picturesque Review - the "beautiful," the "sublime," and the "pic- turesque," a related trio of eighteenth-century British aesthetic ideas.The difference between rugged and smooth was part of it. Smooth is beauty (Burke), picturesque is rugged, sublime is terrifying Picturesque was part of a way of imaginatively engaging with landscapes, of framing, considering them, imbuing them with character, building mental models of them. Picturesque, Sublime & Beautiful were three relatively new ways of imaginatively engaging with landscape that represented a break with previous attempts and paved the way for future movements such as the Romantics, and indeed scientific engagements with the natural world. The natural world, in each of these, was treated as a narrative/aesthetic object - something to be considered in a particular way, to be approached in a particular way and interacted with. This is, at a base level, little different from how environments have always been treated - as imaginatively engaging entities that can be traversed and interacted with - but reflected particular artistic, political and social trends at the time. Patricularly with the sublime, the landscape became something which could be acted upon and could act upon man - hence the feelings that it evoked. Picturesque 18th Century Debate - "he appropriated that view and framed it in a way that controlled and orchestrated each viewer's experience" - Its about visual qualities of landscapes being categorised imaginatively. "The term was first introduced by the Reverend William Gilpin in his 1768 treatise An Essay on Prints. There Gilpin defined the picturesque as "a term expressive of that peculiar kind of beauty which is agreeable in a picture" Linked to the Grand Tour, the heritage of landscapes, the emotional and intellectual implications of viewing them. Capability Brown as a landscape artist. Lack of formality A mixture of gardening and painting. Related to Burke's work on the sublime. Became about what a landscape did to you. Obscu rity, power, privation, vastness, difficulty, magnificence, loudness, and more were among the qualities associated with the sublime" "The beautiful, by contrast, aroused the passion of}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 love and was associated with such qualities as smallness, smoothness, gradual variation, delicacy, and clear but mild coloration." Picturesque sits between sublime and beautiful." roughness, sudden variation, and irregularity as the three hallmarks of the picturesque". Price saw it in nature, and said that it went beyond the visual to include all our senses. Price and Knight Knights difference is that the picturesque is in the eye of the beholder, not the object itself. Tied to painting in Knight's view. All three tied to painting. Part of the history of taste. Landscape being codified in the AESTHETIC, detached from religion.". In overturning the aesthetic dogmatism of the seventeenth century, the eighteenth-century cult of the picturesque helped prepare the way for the aesthetic liberation of the romantic era" Andrews - Landscapes that reminded them of paintings. - Also comes from older British literary traditions - Landscape painting becoming more popular, less debased, in C18th. Producing sketches of the landscapes themselves. about framing the landscapes in certain ways. Leading onto the Romantics "the gradual shift in taste from an Augustan sensibility which sees the world as a display of moral and political emblems to a picturesque sensibility which emphasizes instead each perceiver's emotional and aesthetic responses to the natural world." Andrews sees the Picturesque/beautiful/sublime as a philosophical untethering of the certainty of mans dominion over the natural world. Andrews claims that the icturesque tourist was "typically a gentleman or gentlewoman engaged in an experiment in controlled aesthetic response to a range of new and often intimidating visual experiences" - Nayar  Talking about the emergence of the 'human sciences' (human exceptionalism) during of Enlightenment (Foucault said this in The Order Of Things) Hitt -Enlightenment "an age that ushered in empiricism, natural theology and natural history". In that time "the paradoxical recognition that we both master and are mastered by the nonhuman world".  Majorie Hope Nicolson 'Mountain Glory' - before 17th century mountains were dangerous grotesques. The sublime is oxymoronic - both feel horror, panic, privation, threat AND joy, exaltation. Hitt - THe picturesque was a way to appreciate the mystery of wild nature, but it also destroyed it. "domesticates the wild landscape". Picturesque was a dominating discipline."the Fullness of that Immense-one" - the BEING of nature in Shaftesbury For Hitt, the neoclassical notions of nature are an 'internal' rather 'external' - an ideal accessible by imagination and reason. "double gesture" of reverence and mastery towards nature - "the pastoral idealizes and fictionalizes nature". Hitt - Complicated relationship between 'nature and "nature"' - science on one side, romantics on the other - how do we represent nature accurately? Or do we revel in the imagination's constructions?  In the 18th century big debates about the nature of knowledge, how we know a real thing, the relationship between mental image and the real - Locke and Hume writing about the inadequacy of direct experience - Thomas Wieskel - the sublime etc was a quasi-religious reaction to Enlgithenment. GOd had to be placed in a sensory universe, in nature again, in the vastness of space - in nature-through-science. Hitt - "both are responses to the opacity of nature" The overview here is that the 18th century had a complex, paradoxical relationship with space, ecology, landscape, religion and science. Never one thing or the other. Sees the Beautiful (in a Kantian sense) about a continuity between mind and nature, the mind and real. All of it was about "the complexity... of the relationship between nature and the human mind" Adler - "the faux ruin which became a common landscape motif in the eighteenth century""appropriation of the ruin metaphor will be the one which attempts just such a symbiosis between nature and art" - forest motif with columns}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "Romanticism, the period in which the ruin last held sway over the western aesthetic imagination"}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\ltrch\loch \ls6\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 ELITE MAGIC AND PRACTICE - science and magic wrapped up together, "[of an] identity with" and preceded by the natural philosophy of the 17th century and the "natural magic" (Clark, 1999) of the 15th and 16th centuries, reflected early challenges of the church's hegemony in the mental life of the country, as well as an official, or "elite" (Wilby, 2005) disdain for superstitious beliefs. Watching the systems of nature - Montaigne\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92s Watchmaker. A new way to understand and parse natural systems - away from religion. Natural theology - \u8220\'93to scrutinise nature, to discern its patterns and its idiosyncrasies, was thus a form of worship\u8221\'94. It had an \u8220\'93identity with science\u8221\'94 - studying the natural world as a system of secrets, it was \u8220\'93exoteric.\u8221\'94 Keckermann - \u8220\'93extraordinary virtues\u8230\'85 in natural things\u8221\'94 - joining and combining. \u8220\'93Natural magic as a science of the occult\u8230\'85 occult causation\u8221\'94 - battled against superstition, but both attempts to know the unknown. Davies - \u8220\'93natural magic was considered by many intellectuals to be a branch of the sciences, as it dealt with the occult powers within nature.\u8221\'94 References neo-platonism (char as enviro). Low magic and high magic distinction. Needed to deal with a natural world that needed comprehension - a \u8220\'93causal scheme\u8221\'94 (231). \u8216\'91Mechanical\u8217\'92 philosophy came later - Cartesian mechanomorphism - did not remove \u8220\'93occult qualuities\u8221\'94. \u8220\'93Natural magic\u8221\'94 as \u8220\'93applied science\u8221\'94 - unexplained but natural phenomena that are seen as magic. Owen Davies - natural magic was well-tolerated - \u8220\'93hidden or occult natural forces existed in God\u8217\'92s universe that could be tapped by humans\u8221\'94. P 163- quaots perrault calling rhe Devil a great naturalist. Nature was his realm of influence. Superstition could be demonic - it tried to transcend nature\u8217\'92s dvine laws, originated in devils, go beyond \u8220\'93ascertainable limits\u8221\'94 of nature. \u8220\'93The devil was invoked whenever methods of acquring knolwedge assumed causal connections in nature that did not exist\u8221\'94. God gave everything its place in nature - \u8220\'93natural divination\u8221\'94 (scientific observation) vs. \u8220\'93Diabolocial divination\u8221\'94 (Caspar Peucer). Demonology opposed to \u8220\'93natural magic\u8221\'94 - the natural world causing \u8220\'93mira\u8221\'94 - unexplained things. A neoplatonist position. Was natural wisdom - \u8220\'93knowledge of hidden things\u8221\'94. The resonance of the Devil. Fictional characters tied to natural systems, lying behind natural systems. Darwin influenced by Lyell\u8217\'92s work - \u8220\'93the world is the result of natural laws and forces that are active and observable in the present-day world\u8221\'94 - Science as \u8220\'93our own peculiar form of magic\u8221\'94 (arcana mundi) - Ethologists speak about design - mean how a system self-regulates mechanisms. Spinoza's ideas on god i nnature - "an atheist or a pantheist". \u8220\'93Locate the secret forces in nature\u8221\'94 Science and magic interrelate. Lily Alexander - she gives an overview of romanticism - drawing back in early religious practices and beliefs to art. Cities as environs as well. The sublime is a border between imagination and reason - an autocosmic overwhelming. Largeness, fear, misunderstanding. Use the sublime as the link to fiction. The sublime is different from the beautiful in landscape - (kant) - nonsensical, non-understandable. Can a videogame environment be sublime, as we CAN understand it and find its borders? Sublime - we feel terror and awe because the totality of something, and its place in the logos, extends beyond the bounds of our viewpoint, of our percepton,. (drawing on Kant). For Romantics, language could not grasp it. Going beyond, the unknowability of the system. Taylor outlines how this transcendent worldview changed through the exercise of discipline and reform, which gradually tamed uncontrolled and supernatural forces. Coalescing in the Reformation, and affected through a growing middle class, this process of discipline corralled disruptive beliefs and isolated the now buffered self from nature, with the aim of securing a well-ordered and industrious society. }
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b1\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1 Later Conceptions}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b1\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b1\i0\cf1 Bottom Line: The narrative/imaginative engagement with environment, particularly through art (mixed interestingly with religion) is alive and well. A systemic narrative engagement, that is often characterised.}
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b1\i0\cf1  A Larger Series Of Trends Outside Fictive Narrative Arts - turning towards a non-human-focussed, systemic/networked, holistic appreciation and understanding of environment/ecology.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b1\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b1\i0\cf1 Environments/Landscapes In Fiction: }{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 The importance of space. Mark J. Wolf, refer back to cosmos/worldliness from chapter 1. Interesting link to the \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8216\'91designedness\u8217\'92 of space. "Lotman views the world of a story as structured by a system of relations between symbolic domains delimited by spatial boundaries." For Wolf, we expand the worlds too (in Tolkien review) through reader participation. "Wolf\u8217\'92s key argument here is since Plato\u8217\'92s Republic, imaginary worlds have existed for their own sake, not merely as narrative settings." - perdurant, just like characters. Imaginary worlds as "transmedia entities, the receptacles of interrelated narratives, or objects of study and interest in themselves". Calls it "subcreation studies" - tolkien's term. He explores them through linguistic, social, cultural, anthropological, geographic, political - "world consistency" - rodrigo lesa and joao araujo and "world completeness" (benjamin j. robertson). Use them for lots of reasons - as uchronias, as political experiments (edward castronova), as satire (carstocea), as places to escape (lars konzack), as participatory (freeman), as dystopias. Fictional worlds are important to narrative art, in and of themselves. Possible Worlds Theory (Ryan, from website) - "accessibility relation" to the real world. Tied to how we percieve environment - deeply tied not just to place, but systemic space/place.Only really need to touch on it. Possible worlds as "ontologically complete entities" - "a matter of missing information, not of ontological deficiency" (some dissent to this idea, she shows). Alison (GS) - \u8220\'93Wuthering Heights as environment as part of story\u8221\'94. \u8220\'93According to Lotman, narrative is born when a character crosses the boundary between these symbolically charged spaces: \u8220\'93A plot can always be reduced to a basic episode\hich\f2 \emdash \loch\f2 the crossing of the basic topological border in the plot\u8217\'92s spatial structure\u8221\'94 ([1970] 1977: 238).\u8221\'94 - \u8220\'93all narratives imply a world with spatial extension, even when spatial information is withheld\u8221\'94 - \u8220\'93An important aspect of the cognitive mapping of narrative texts is the attribution of symbolic meaning to the various regions and landmarks of the narrative world.\u8221\'94 Jenkins' idea of a story as a 'body of information' rather than 'temporal structure' - Often just seen as settings for human stories. Lawrence Durrell - \u8220\'93You write\u8230\'85 as if the landscape were more important than the characters\u8217\'92 - seeing characters \u8216\'91almost as functions of landscape\u8217\'92 - narratologists have long privileged time over space, narrative space remains a relatively unexplored territory. Dictionary of Imaginary places - place as character - worthy of being considered on its own - Jones on stage design - \u8220\'93To bring into being a powerful non-being\u8221\'94 - Hedda Gabler\u8217\'92s room is almost a \u8220\'93presence, a mood\u8221\'94 - \u8220\'93it says nothing, but gives everything\u8221\'94 (not a character for him, though). Celia Pearce - - LOTR stories were \u8220\'93developed as a means to explore the worlds\u8221\'94. Always framed in fiction. Always designed. \u8221\'94Landscapes are culture before they are nature; constructs of the imagination projected on to the wood and water and rock___But it should also be acknowledged that once a certain idea of landscape, a myth or vision, establishes itself in an actual place, it has a peculiar way of muddling categories, of making metaphors more real than their referents, of becoming, in fact, part of the scene\u8221\'94. Laure-Ryan in Why WOrlds Now talks about the history of possible worlds theory in science, art, religion. 'World' not meaning planet, but "everything that exists". Possible Worlds started as a philosophical exercise - a way to explain how imagined worlds could function and be spoken about. With speech act theory. Worlds can be non-actual, just like people. "the exact nature of actuality is open to debate". \u8220\'93But Lewis' work was important because it meant truth and falsity could be talked about when talking about possible worlds - we could discuss them _as_ worlds. Breaking down of older ideas that kept distance from fictional works as important - Lewis tried to collapse that idea of real and irreal, and distance. Not just "the suspension of the rules governing speech acts". Worlds are both immersive and interactive, in Ryan's conception. Can "reach out them". "people start engaging with these worlds for their own sake" - move beyond utilitarian concerns and art and storytelling come into being. "our present fascination with imaginary worlds has deep roots in human evolution". "envisages interactions between consciousness and landscape". Margaret Drabble, A Writer's Britain - how landscape has featured in literature. As we have looked at, how " how textual structures activate embodied cognition." Talks about \u8220\'93literary cartography\u8221\'94 - writers create worlds within and without the text. Ackroyd's narratives - "individuals\u8217\'92 freedoms diminished and handed over to the voracious city. " (cities as well). What Ryan calls 'narrative cartography' - the use of mapped space within literature and storytelling, both conceptually (metatextually) and actually (textually)- plot mappings, geographical mappings, meaning mappings, textual mappings. \u8220\'93We tend to project forms of spatiality onto [the text]\u8221\'94.\u8220\'93We must,\u8221\'94 Ackroyd argues, \u8220\'93regard it [London] as a human shape with its own laws of life and growth.\u8221\'94 The author must submit to the city\u8217\'92s \u8220\'93monstrous form.\u8221\'94 A tension between landscape and character in books, for Weston. Robert Tally Jr. Points out the importance of landscape, \u8216\'91setting\u8217\'92, to narrative. The importance of space has been reasserted in recent years. Setting used to be seen as an \u8220\'93empty container\u8221\'94. The \u8220\'93spatial turn\u8221\'94 - across cultures. \u8220\'93Spatial literary studies\u8221\'94 \u8220\'93Bridging the divide between the word and the world\u8221\'94 The \u8220\'93possible worlds\u8221\'94 of literary and fictive philosophy. Withers - spatial turn - \u8220\'93place as social practice\u8221\'94. "narrative\u8217\'92s tendency to foreground human protagonists, psychological causality, and human-scale temporality and spatiality" as Schneider (2001) observes, space in narrative usually serves as a background for characters and their actions, and not as a focus of interest. Environment in art - what Robert Tally calls literary cartography. This is a brief history of the growing importance of personal, face-to-faces engagement with SYSTEMIC environment. And goes on to talk about non-fiction, engagement with the rest of the world. "geographical and rhetorical functions of space". "if the significance of space is a result of its geographic context and the evolving narrative process, then it functions as both a \u8220\'93container and network\u8221\'94 of information (16)". Chronotope Bahktin. The authors develop five layers of space: the domain or spatial frames; how and why characters move and are contained by geography; setting; story space; storyworld, the story spacecompleted by the audience\u8217\'92s imagination; and universal places where social, political, emotional, or cultural boundaries are crossed within a narrative. "s a matter of general configuration rather than of specific geography. Good stories make space legible and meaningful by dividing their world into emotionally and symbolically charged subspaces where different experiences are possible and different kinds of events happen." - place in narrative. Caraciolo providing a phenomenological account of 'narrative space' in modern times. Space is as important as time in our 'sense-making' of narrative. Tied to grounded and embodied cognition. Spatial frames, setting, story space, storyworld -> moving out in specificity. Caraciolo is distinguished - spae is not just meaningful and reosnant socially and culturally, but personally and phenomenonologically as well. Being present in storyworld geographically, understanding themes through space, being emotionally involved. 'Embodied reactions'. "De Certeau even argued that every story is a travel story, as it has to include spatial practices that localize events (Certeau 1984)." "in recent years a new approach to exploring texts has been developed in not only literary but also media studies which suggests looking behind the authorial narrative to the actual world the \u8220\'93author\u8221\'94 creates for the narrative and characters of their stories to live and exist in. "That the worlds invented by \u8220\'93authors\u8221\'94 for their narrative are in themselves \u8220\'93dynamic entities\u8221\'94 (3) and that these worlds are transformative, transmedial and transauthorial in nature and therefore compelling objects of inquiry which invite speculation and exploration through imaginative means." , Jenkins' idea of a story as a 'body of information' rather than 'temporal structure'. Lawrence Buell's "environmental imagination", more often found in non-fiction. "We mean a totality made up of concrete things having material substance, shape, texture and color. Together these things determine an \u8216\'91environmental character,\u8217\'92 which is the essence of place. In general, a place is given as such a character or \u8216\'91atmosphere.\u8217\'92 A place is therefore a qualitative, \u8216\'91total\u8217\'92 phenomenon, which we cannot reduce to any of its properties, such as spatial relationships, without losing its concrete nature out of sight\u8221\'94 (1980, 6 and 8)." - it's character. "From the point of view of the \u8216\'91actual actual world\u8217\'92 the worlds of fiction are discourse-created non-actual possible worlds, populated by incompletely specified individuals; but to the reader immersed in the text the TAW is imaginatively real, and the characters are ontologically complete human beings." Now we are into \u8220\'93environmental literary criticism\u8221\'94. Erin James - Econarratology, talking about systemic, environmental concerns. Both concerned with the environment AS IT IS and platonic environments as systems. Has carried over into secularity. - \u8220\'93unchanging individuality\u8221\'94 - its \u8216\'91perdurance\u8217\'92, perhaps.  " how textual structures activate embodied cognition." - \u8220\'93Some stories present space as closed and confining (prison narratives; Anne Frank\u8217\'92s diary), others as open and liberating (narratives of exploration; many travel narratives), and still others as open and alienating (stories of wandering aimlessly in a hostile environment). Confined space occasionally turns into a field of endless discoveries, as does Robinson Crusoe\u8217\'92s island. Through its immensity, space may be perceived as separating (narratives of exile; Odyssey), or its existence may be denied by technology (telecommunications; travel through teletransportation). Narrative may also focus on place, a concept commonly opposed to space by geographers, by immersing the reader in a particular landscape or cityscape. And finally, narratives may highlight the importance of our sense of embodiment for the experience of space by featuring a protagonist whose body grows or shrinks out of human proportions. Novels like Gulliver\u8217\'92s Travels or Alice in Wonderland de-automatize our relation to space by showing how movement, navigation, the handling of objects and interpersonal relations are affected by a change of scale. Characters are relating to space all the time, but  new nature writing mirrors the concerns of academic ecocriticism, which has similarly explored how scientific and cultural understandings of nature have created hierarchical distinctions between the human and non-human through metaphors of empirical mastery or romantic rapture, but which also acknowledges that such myths are, in Jonathan Bate\u8217\'92s words, \u8216\'91necessary imaginings, exemplary stories which help our species to make sense of its place in the world\u8217\'92. The "emotional-spatial" as a key constituent of ourselves, arising from how our emotional selves interpret the spaces around us.\u8221\'94 "During the postwar period, writers grappled with the difficulties that are presented by the very human focus of the novel form. In the same period, creative nonfiction prose concerned with landscape and environment has increasingly deployed a set of literary techniques associated primarily with fiction." Seamus Heaney - landscape as a \u8220\'93cryptic fabric of signs instinct with spiritual significance.\u8221\'94 They are also narratively incomplete. }
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 The dictionary of imaginary places demonstrates the hold that these places have.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 real places upon whcch "authors...installed... their visions."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "places without which the world would be so much poorer"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Literary geography - From 'landscapes associated with writers' right up to 'how does space work in literature'?}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8216\'91at the intersection of agents and situations scattered across time and space\u8217\'92(Hones 2008: 1307, 1302)}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\ri-998\sa820\sl360\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8216\'91Spatial frames\u8217\'92 - what we actually see of the environment. Implies the \u8220\'93setting\u8221\'94 (the wider environ) and by extension the \u8220\'93storyworld\u8221\'94 (}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 a coherent, unified, ontologically full and materially existing geographical entity, even when it is a fictional world that possesses none of these properties)}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1  . The narrative includes both \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8216\'91spatial frames\u8217\'92 and mentioned elements from setting - the storyworld comes from autocosmics}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\ri-1332\sb85\sl360\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f3\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 There must be intrinsic and embedded narratives in all fictional worlds, she says. }{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 The story activates the world.Not a "landscaping hobby" - }
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ri-998\sb85\sl360\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Ryan defines four features of worlds: \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93connected set of objects and individuals; habitable environment; reasonably intelligible totality for external observers; field of activity for its members\u8221\'94 (Ryan, 2001, p. 91).}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b1\i0\cf1 Anthropomorphism/Animism/Animals As Elements Of Environment As Well (In Fiction), i.e. characterising environments: }{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Popular cultural forms have a strong anthropomorphic bias\u8221\'94 - "the scope to representations of animals and shows that trans-species empathy relies on the same cognitive processes as human empathy." Focus on 'reciprocity' between human and non-human agencies. Non-human and non-animals can have agencies in these models. Nominalization - turning verbs into nouns - processes into agents. the 'nonhuman turn'. rld". Creating animal autobiographies - a new phenomenon . "strategies for projecting nonhuman experiences in storyworlds" - ranging from 'speaking for' animals (human-centred) to trying to represent their experiences directly. Animals as representatives of their environment. DeMello - become "much more than simply allegorical devices". Is it fiction or real? Can it ever be real? He asks this question. Works of both 'popular and critical posthumanism". "anthropocentric ontologies deny proper selfhood to nonhuman beings". " this other way of configuring creatural life allocates to a whole range of animals possibilities for selfhood that more restrictive ontologies limit to humans\hich\f2 \emdash \loch\f2 or even to only a subset of the larger human population." " these narratives may highlight and even challenge our conception of the human" - narratives can be ABOUT place rather than about humans in place. Going back to the intentional stance, updated to suit what we now know about the world. Both think of in human terms and 'defamiliarise" - a 'double dialectic". Drawing on Blakey Vermeule - the importance of anthropomorphisation and animism. " the conceptual integration of human and non-human traits" empathy and defamiliarisation with landscapes - drawing attention to their otherness, our part in them, our treatment of them. "This rudimentary, proto- typical structure involves the assumption that the entity has mental states and a body (Eder, Jannidis, and Schneider 13)." Janndis' basic character - we can start assuming fairly easily that something non-human can be a character. "stories narrated by non-human animals can destabilize anthropocentric ideologies" - both empathise and other animals. We are p[art of a continuum with them. Can be both familiar and strange, depending on context. " a double dialectic of empathy and defamiliarization (on the one hand), human and non-human experientiality (on the other)". "Object narrators collapse the cognitively basic distinction between animate and inanimate entities". " Combined with narrative empathy, defamiliarization can generate narrative interest by producing startling insights: as our case studies have shown, it can expand the audience\u8217\'92s understanding of the physical world (in the Carey text, the object narrators call attention to invisible natural forces and phenomena)". "challenge anthropocentric worldviews by gesturing towards a dimension of animal experience that is largely unknown to human readers". David Herman - co-authored acts of narrating in behalf of equally hybrid (or \u8220\'93humanimal\u8221\'94) principals. "solidarity-building projections of other creatures\u8217\'92 ways of being-in-the-wo. "Instead, Goatly\u8217\'92s suggestion is that, in order to dispel this myth, \u8220\'93our image of the world has to become one in which processes predominate and human actors disappear\u8221\'94 (1996: 554)". An environmentally oriented text might be more usefully conceived of as one that moves toward establishing a dialogue between the human narrative, on the one hand, and concern for landscape and environment, on the other, perhaps even only tentatively. Animism today is "the offspring of the early human;s belief systems". Narratology Beyond The Human - \u8220\'93post-darwinian narratives\u8221\'94 - having an animal/human narrative is not simple - can be very complex and \u8220\'93promote dialogue and exchange among the arts, sciences and humanities\u8221\'94. \u8220\'93Trans-species entanglements\u8221\'94 \u8220\'93Expanded forms of relationality\u8221\'94. \u8220\'93Our relationship with wild animals should be through imagination and respect, not through exploitation and manipulation and management. Owain Jones - The idea that the 'rural' can be constituted by things other than human agency, 'non-human agency', or 'collective agency' - the 'agency of place'. 'question the prominence of the divide between the natural and the social worlds' - just like old religion. Thus can we think of landscapes, and individuals, as components of systems and systems in and of themselves.  Nature writing, good naturing writing, tries to get away from the bad aspects of anthropomorphism by incoporating the good bits of anthropomorphism - or, rather, panmorphism. "more-than-human geography" - "our ethical relations with 'others' as contingent, sensitive and situated" - The rechampioning of anthropomorphism - \u8220\'93naive and critical modes of anthropomorphism\u8221\'94 - we have moved towards the latter. Away from \u8220\'93anthropodenial\u8221\'94 (Sober, 2005) \u8220\'93strong and weak anthropomorphism\u8221\'94 - is antrhopomorphism unavoidable. Plumwood sees it as better to represent them IN SOME WAY than not represent them at all.  Difficult to locate the ideal path between anthropomorphism and anthropocentrism,. \u8220\'93What storytelling practgices reval about (human attitudes towards) the nonhuman world and its inhabitants\u8221\'94 - this is an important part of telling non-human narratives, and may suit games better. HUGGAN sees Macdonald's account as an attempt to both understand wildness and respect its otherness - the goshawk represrnts this. hawk as "silent interlocutor" between her and the wildness of death. Both knowing and not knowing the hawk. "wildness cannot be categorized" Allowing anthropomorphism but not too far.\u8220\'93enchanted, and thereby manifesting a reality beyond exhaustive rational human conceptualization.\u8221\'94 "the scope to representations of animals and shows that trans-species empathy relies on the same cognitive processes as human empathy." - \u8220\'93 the ideal of neighbourly cohabitation that is at the heart of the new nature writing\u8221\'94. H is For Hawk - an animal as a landscape, as an extension of landscape and something to get to know. Uses very algorithmic language, talking about its different features, something she gets to know, uses as a reflection of her own autocosmic relationship with father, a reflexction of her grief. \u8220\'93Domestic animals are beloved, familiar and invisible, while the fascination and remoteness of wild animals is provoked\u8230\'85\u8221\'94 \u8220\'93Training a hawk was like psychoanalysis.\u8221\'94 Richard Mabey on W.H. Hudson = \u8220\'93saw all birds as extensions of the landscapes in which they moved\u8221\'94 - chruches without jackdaws are not chruches. \u8220\'93Stimulus: opera. Response: kill\u8221\'94 - like a machine. I am reminded of Henry Moore stating that sheep remind him of living stones.\u8220\'93the workings\u8230\'85 of posture and feathers\u8230\'85 an exquisitely controlled barometer of mood\u8221\'94 Animot - derrida on animals as equals - Who are we following when we follow an animal? We are following ourselves.\u8220\'93An existence that refuses to be conceptualized\u8221\'94 - animal as attempted to understand systemically, on an intimate level, rather than merely a player in a story.Animal conception as inextricable from human perspective.\u8220\'93Immense symbolic responsibility\u8221\'94 of animals. Like Baker\u8217\'92s \u8216\'91Peregrine\u8217\'92 - \u8220\'93remarkable metamorphosis of man into predatory bird\u8221\'94. Away from Hobbesian \u8216\'91artificial animal\u8217\'92 and Cartesian machine-animal, to a still systemic but more mysterious animal. H is for Hawk - \u8220\'93so much of what she means is made of people\u8221\'94. \u8220\'93The complexity (and co-constitutive effects) of human-animal interactions and relationships\u8221\'94. Post-human narratology - beyond \u8220\'93normal narratological science\u8221\'94. Helen Macdonald - \u8220\'93my watching\u8230\'85 the first few days with a wild new hawk are a delicate, reflexive dance of manners\u8221\'94. Bestiality, and its principle of uncertainty, must be killed in animals. Personality in animals - consistent invdividual traits that differ from other animals of the same species. Or are they \u8220\'93mindless automatons\u8221\'94 - \u8220\'93prevailing opinion has swung between the two extremes\u8221\'94. Neither Descartes, Kant, Heidegger, Levinas, nor Lacan, he claims, has given such sustained attention to the question of the animal. For Derrida, animals are not different.Baudrillard as well. She feels like a protecting spirit\u8230\'85 my little household god\u8221\'94 - h is for hawk. Gibson - "re-sacralizing animals" Limitrophy - the gaps and inconsistencies in the assumed binary divide between humans and animals. A mix of domestic geography and \u8216\'91wildness\u8217\'92. \u8220\'93Worshipping an iceberg\u8221\'94. \u8220\'93a persuasive reconfiguration of the local\u8221\'94. Beyond \u8220\'93Menzal - animals as \u8220\'93goal-seeking agents that acquire, store, retrieve and internally process information.\u8221\'94 Also an unnatural arrangement (according to heideger) - \u8220\'93The original monstrosity of the beast\u8221\'94 (baudrillard). Allomorphism - \u8220\'93the wonderous strangeness of animals, which often involves an overtly-sacred language.\u8221\'94 \u8220\'93That place where goshawks go when they\u8217\'92ve eaten. It is very far away.\u8221\'94 \u8220\'93Split-second ink-starred decisions in the hawk\u8217\'92s tactical computer\u8221\'94 \u8220\'93A being whose world is drawn in plots and vecotrs that pull her towards lives\u8217\'92 ends\u8221\'94 - \u8220\'93Healthy delight for animal\u8230\'85 but with the greatest possible consideration for its biological situation\u8221\'94. In particular, our sentimentality toward animals is a sure sign of the disdain in which we hold them.\u8220\'93All sorts of predatory taxonomies are buried in the baby goshawk\u8217\'92s brain\u8221\'94. Animals "are all beasts of burden, in a sense, made to carry some portion of our thoughts". "whether he likes it or not, [man] must play the part thrust upon him in accordance with the ceremonial peculiar to that species." Despot - subordinate relationship. A psychological competition as well as physical when domineering. Whatever it may be, animals have always had, until our era, a divine or sacrificial nobility that all mythologies recount. Even murder by hunting is still a symbolic relation, as opposed to an experimental dissection. Animals don\u8217\'92t always conform to narratives. Helen Macdonald had to impose a human intentionality to wrangle a narrative out of her bird. umwelt close to the idea of embodied cognition " transposing the environment into its subjective meaning, which is accessible only to the encoding subject." - robot umwelt - the hawk is represented as an experience that we cannot subsume into a system or narrative. Both social and parasocial relationships with animals.\u8221\'94 \u8220\'93The idea of using talking animals in the stories (Joe Bear et al.) was Roger\u8217\'92s idea. Clearly, we weren\u8217\'92t going to get very sophisticated or elaborate output from this program, but we could illustrate the basic ideas, and the animals gave it a bit of humor.\u8221\'94 Horses in videogames - unerring companions (Roach, Red Dead, Skyrim/Oblivion, Wander in Shadow of the Collosusalways used to name them in the console), silent, tactical, agents in the countryside, probably the closst. You talk to it - a synaesthetic relationship; your button presses both move the horse and cause your character to touch it - people talking about horses being an extension of them (centaurs, chimera character) in games- an extension of you, or of the landscape. Relating to the landscape. Colours complementing, can already jump fences.  " specific entities such as animals and seas are core in people's mental images of nature (e.g., van den Born,Lenders, de Groot, & Huijsman, 2001)" - nicola taylor - "the personality, and thus the personhood of animals, as intersubjectively and reflexively created. " Animals can be persons distinct from their environments, or part of the 'non-human' environment. Drawing sociology into human-animal relations. Beforehand was dismissive, anthopocentric. "the rich traditions of phenomenological and ethnomethodological sociology which see the mind as a social construction rather than a biological given" - " interaction \u8220\'93can be anything that the participants agree to treat as explicit\u8221\'94 (Drew and Wootton ibidem: 35-36. Author emphasis added)." (non-verbal, part 4)}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "Goffman (1963) specified that interaction takes place when two individuals areco-present with one another: Persons must sense that they are close enough to be perceived in whatever they are doing, including their experiencing of others, and close enough to be perceived in this sense of being perceived. (p. 17) Many interactions between humans and animals meet this criterion. " The construction of personhood as fundamental to social interaction. As a general rule \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93nonhuman animals are culturally defined as a generic group and, as such, relegated to the social category of \u8220\'93nonpersons\u8221\'94 (Sanders 1995: 196). - granting and imputing personhood a big part of human-animal relationships. Animals as "sentient commodity".  - object/network theory can set animals as components/representational of environment rather than in}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1  " the other-than-human animals that share our territories"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 has historically been denied them, or avoided - new approaches - the 'interactive approach' - approach the animal as a being with a mind in order to discover that mind (quote) - we ascribe personhood through interaction - looking at personhood, mind etc. through observation and lived experience rather than playing language games and making it entirely logical. Our observation of animals, our lived experience with them, leads to ascription of personhood. We approach them AS IF THEY HAVE MINDS - we imaginatvely interact with them from that basis. A basis of personhood based on imagination and engagement rather than fact. (aaltola)}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Environmental Personhood - Gwendolyn Gordon - " the nascent notion of designating parts of nature as legal persons entitled to independent regard and consideration." A legal fiction, but still interesting. In response to the need to protect it. Not a universal thing - as a result of social, political and environmental pressure.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Ohlin acknowledges the term is difficult to define precisely because it draws upon biological, metaphysical, moral, religious, and legal meanings (miqmaq paper).}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Personhood & Neuroscience - "Personhood is a foundational concept in ethics" - Difficult to define in terms of psychology or neuroscience - " the product of an evolved brain system that develops innately and projects itself automatically and irrepressibly onto the world whenever triggered by stimulus features such as a human-like face, body, or contingent patterns of behavior" - This is as an ethical term - " Extending the legal concept of a person to some species of animal, for the sake of improving animal welfare, is more than a legal maneuver. It is also the expression of a new ontology, that is, a new understanding of what persons are. Just as slaves were once regarded as non-persons, both legally and more generally in terms of people\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92s beliefs and behaviors, so too authors such as Steven Wise (2002) suggest that certain animals are now wrongly classified as non-persons."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Introduction by Graham Harvey (animism) 2 ways - a religious way and a philosophical way - the "spirit" approach and the post-humanist approach. "relational, embodied, eco-activst" rather than "metaphysical" Tylor (histyory of religion, animism as engagement with spirits) - new animism is about communication and ecology - it is about the network, rather than the nodes (his ideas) - "think more carefully about what it means to be a person" - "persons always live in relation to others" - animism can be "quite practical and prgamatic as people negotiate everyday needs" - "ferment of new research" about animism. "the world is a community of living persons, all deserving respect" - Hallowell 1960 (not direct quote) - Hallowell's work with tribes - Talks about adult animism in contemporary socioety - Panpsychism - all matter is sentient in some way. - "cognitive mechanisms arising in the deep evolutionary past but continuing to affect contemporary behaviours" - "continual interrelation of all beings of of matter itself" - "crossing the boundaries between arts, humanities and sciences" -   Animism is still about. "most humans remain enchanted, to some degree, rather than entirely rationalist"}
\par\plain \f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b1\i0\cf1 And In Heritage Interpretation? }{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 About natural heritage, as well, then? AHI on Natural interpretation. Part of 'bridging the gap' (Shackley 1996) between modern life and nature. Searching for wildlife/clues "a personal journey of self-discovery" The value of interpretation on natural sites in enhancing the visitor experience and potentially reducing visitor impacts has been widely accepted. " \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8216\'91Narrative environments\u8217\'92 (TGAC) - Today we interpret landscapes especially -t hey are what are left - they persist, and have a certain character (need a few quotes for this). \u8220\'93rapid escalation in mass tourism globally to heritage sites, museums, historic landscapes and places of architectural interest \u8220\'93. Culloden battlesite. "the authors identify spatial narratives that underpin historic heritage sites, such as sequential narratives, linear arrangements, chronological progression, aerial narratives, and hybrid mixtures of all these types. By identifying these underlying structures, the authors show how signs, roadside markers, memorials, and other displays convey stories and information about these sites in a spatial and temporal manner. " HERITAGE TOO... "Museum exhibitions tell stories, unavoidably political and cultural narratives, which unfold for visitors as narratives within an architectural space. " - Moscardo - "interpretation is about the creation of a sense of place" - "interpretation is embedded in the experience of a place" - "places are socially constructed and linked to group identity" - An autocosmic relationship to landscape, place, locale, space - often non-Western and non-scientific - is important to communicating the significance of place, time, history etc. }
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Heritage Landscapes, Kryder-Reid - "heritage landscapes contain both natural and cultural resources" - Very important environments that we relate to in a variety of manners - that we protect, use, revere, "contested uses and values", political and religious implications, Contested narratives ABOUT these places. Especially when involves disaster or tragedy. A type of landscape that is encountered imaginatively by visitors, is held up in certain ways, certain narratives, that is heavily ritualised and controlled, that we engage with imaginatively.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Champion - "A visitor perceives space as place, and inhabits (modifies the place)"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "The only way then to approach this issue is to view (and design) environments depicting human cultures as hermeneutic (that afford an actively engaged interpretation of the lives and intentions of past inhabitants)."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "The artifacts act like a library of memory cues to remind people how to behave according to certain}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 events or locations, (Johnson 1997, Crang 1998, Relph 1986). Not just objects but also the wider}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 environment can act as an artifact. Place is also a collection of symbolic cues for inhabitation, and for}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 territorial possession, (Rapoport 1982)." - 3.4}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 cultural geography as a reference in 3.2}
\par\plain \f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b1\i0\cf1 EcoCrit, Nature Writing: }{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "Nan Shepherd devises ways of moving outside of straightforward human perspective on environment". CogSci in EcoCrit: emotions created to promote political and social change, environmental texts exert a deep and effective impact on their readers. . Turned out Nice Again (2013) - the weather as a "creature of our imagination" \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93The choice between monolithic, ecocidal modernism and reverential awe is a false dichotomy\u8221\'94. Swamp Dragon talking about ecofeminism. In Swamp Dragon - " tired of reverence as the only option". NNW - "deploying techniques drawn from novelistic discourse in their treatment of nonfictional material." About \u8220\'93Human relations with the non-human world\u8221\'94 - \u8220\'93we require things to have their own lives if they are to enrich ours\u8221\'94 (McF). A use for the ineffable as well as the scientific. Nature writing bridges science and poetry. Aligned with Psychogeography - mapping mind to a space. Psychogeography (Flanagan) - \u8220\'93a discipline\u8230\'85 to study and experience the effects of environment\u8230\'85 on emotions, thinking processes and behavior\u8221\'94 - started by Situationists. The mixing of the occult in Ian Sinclair\u8217\'92s work. Mabey - \u8220\'93all of us who have tried to explore the complex relationships between humans and the natural world\u8221\'94. Mabey points out that it is difficult to homogenize - ranging from literature to science work, \u8220\'93imaginative travel literature\u8221\'94 of Robert Macfarlane - but all united by love of and evocation of nature? Grouped as a \u8220\'93kind of cult\u8221\'94 - the shamanic tone again? \u8220\'93Most of us prefer to think of ourselves just as writers, who simply wish to embrace a rather larger than usual cast of characters, the other beings and landscapes with which we share the planet \endash  and to respect them as subjects not simply objects. But nature as active subject implies relationships, not simply objective descriptions (that's "natural history writing"), and the difficult work of marrying truth to one's emotional and imaginative responses with truth to an organism's own life.\u8221\'94 Confusing whether nature is an enchanted place, whether we know it through facts or metaphysically, or whether it is transcendant. \u8220\'93The overwhelming complexity and depth of a single place\u8221\'94. cog sci in environmental crit - environmental texts exert a deep and effective impact on their readers. Sinclairs, Ackroyds work blends shamanism and moden landscapes - "channel the resonances of place". "its protagonist is the living mountain itself (the range is taken as a single entity in this respect)". " The topographical features of place\hich\f2 \emdash \loch\f2 the \u8220\'93elementals\u8221\'94\hich\f2 \emdash \loch\f2 make up this environment\u8217\'92s character." "the \u8220\'93quiescence,\u8221\'94 the loosening of self, that is needed for an intimate relationship with this place. She is also clear that she does not \u8220\'93ascribe sentience to the mountain.\u8221\'94 Instead, \u8220\'93consciousness interacts with the mountain-forms,\u8221\'94 resulting in \u8220\'93matter impregnated with mind.\u8221\'9436" - constructs, LIKE characters. Points out Macfarlane saying that nature writing had a new resurgance from 70s onwards. Away from pastoral romanticism. \u8220\'93Ecologically informed aestheticised observation\u8221\'94 \u8220\'93Draw attention to the natural world around us\u8221\'94. \u8220\'93close natural history observation as psychotherapy and psychodrama\u8221\'94. There are issues with it (Oakley et al) - apolitical, elitist, over-romantic. Moran 2014 - personal narratives link to the political and generalised in nature writing. This sense of the obdurate otherness of nature, its mute, unredemptive indifference, is a common trope in the new nature writing. Ecocrit linking to ACTION, using a space - ritual relation to narrative. Descriptions of ritual practices and invitations to perform new ones. \u8220\'93different ways of being alive\u8221\'94. Both action and inaction, travel and \u8216\'91stayputtedness\u8217\'92. the complex relation between literary production and environmental activism - taking action within a space. "Smith\u8217\'92s study does important work towards institutionalising New Nature Writing, consistently treating it as a complex, multifarious genre that is intimately connected to socially engaged environmental activism." Granta 102 - the new nature writing. Also Bloomsbury book on same subject. The \u8220\'93literature of place\u8221\'94 - \u8220\'93proliferation of landscape writing in Britain and Ireland\u8221\'94 is both stylistically innovative and mindful of ecology and conservation practice - against homogenisation - the \u8220\'93character\u8221\'94 of place. \u8220\'93unashamedly anthropocentric\u8221\'94 - yes, sometimes... Moran - finding meaning not in the rare and exotic but in our common, unremarkable encounters with the natural world, and in combining both scientific, scholarly observation of nature with carefully crafted, discursive writing. Personal reflection with natural history, cultural history, psychogeography, travel and topographical writing, folklore and prose poetry. all speak to anxieties about human disconnection from natural processes which have grown since the first stirrings of the environmental movement in the early 1970s, Interested in local knowledge, focus on the \u8216\'91parochial\u8217\'92 as a positive. Both natural and cultural landscapes. \u8220\'93Finding words to bridge that divide between the otherness of nature\u8221\'94. Ecocriticism - \u8220\'93the study of the relationship between the human and the non-human\u8221\'94. Several different ways to talk about this idea of relational identity and agency, mixing of human and non-human -a secular approach ot older ideas about nature. - "the non-human, the topography, becomes active". \u8220\'93 Now I warm towards the concept of neighbourliness as a template with which to approach and write about our relations with our fellow organisms. It permits concern, shared circumstance, even love from afar, but demands no reciprocity.\u8221\'94  Not just \u8216\'91nature\u8217\'92 writing - basically, those ways that mankind writes about relationships outside of himself - with places, environments, climates, animals. \u8220\'93a recognition of the appropriate, and therefore intelligent, behaviour of matter, and that landscapes have "memories" embedded in their structure that influence their present environs, their future destinies \endash  and the humans that pass through them.\u8221\'94 \u8220\'93 "new" nature writing was not new at all, but embedded in a long tradition\u8221\'94 - a sentence on its heritage?  a dialogic relationship with places, objects and landscapes: a relationship that is infused with social and cultural characteristics" Palmer, 2014. Combining shamanistic sentiment with solid scientific credentials.  Poole and New Statesman argument seeing it as fashionable solipsism, bordering on religiosity, gatekeeping. \u8220\'93Romantic self-obsession\u8221\'94 I disagree, or even celebrate the religiosity. A mixture of secular, phenomenological ideas and spuirituality. From religion to art. \u8220\'93Material, embodied interactions through which the identities of places and human subjects are co-constructed.\u8221\'94 Attention leads to understanding, empathy and thus political action in favour of landscape - like with a person? (Jos Smith) - \u8220\'93mind \endash  just as with Leach's ascription of reflective consciousness to animals and plants, or Dee's self-questioning wildebeest and knowledgeable gas \endash  is understood to be spread out everywhere in nature, rather than a possession only of human beings. It's probably always a strong temptation for nature writers to flirt with such panpsychism. Doesn\u8217\'92t matter if it is actually there - we can use it. What Mabey calls \u8216\'91the firsthand encounters with nature that are the aboriginal, objective raw material for science and art alike\u8217\'92.[63].  "thoroughgoing embrace of novelistic discourse" for nature writing. The Living Mountain - places being "sinister", known for drownings, can find wherw water comes from, but just makes more mysteries. "The fully embodied engagement with a specific landscape, the dissolving of one\u8217\'92s being, and the transgression of the boundary between the self and other". Not studied much even in 2001 (Carter) - both \u8220\'93intimacy and detachment\u8221\'94 -" As each element, inanimate and animate, \u8216\'91natural\u8217\'92 and \u8216\'91cultural\u8217\'92, makes the \u8216\'91living\u8217\'92 mountain"."Rather, she subverts these discourses and provides an alternative to \u8216\'91a masculinized ideal of selfhood founded on separation from nature, rational objectivity and a need to dominate\u8217\'92 (Kroeber, 1994, p. 17). "a text which moves beyond habitual means of charting the world and unsettles habitual ways of perceiving a landscape, a kind of domestic geography [2] that maps borders and then transgresses them." "This would suggest that the narrative arrangement of her work is spatial rather than temporal, and that the individual is not, in fact, central, but exists as a part of a place and as part of a community." "this is a pallid simulacrum of their reality, which, like every reality that matters to human beings, is a reality of the mind\u8217\'92" - she stands against rational detachment from place, in Carter's view. "Shepherd\u8217\'92s geographical poetics opens up these possibilities for conveying modes of experience that exist beyond the constraints of everyday life" - but also part of everyday life. A definite exploration of "coming to know" a place. Like a person. Refers to mountains as gendered. "coming to be with a friend just to sit with them". She cannot hope to exploit them on her own; but she can make forays into them. Places unknown because of weather or incline have a sanctity. Talks about interiority of the mountain Mystery of water, unknowablity, life of its own. where come from, where does it go. Animals (like ptarmigan) knowable parts of vast unknowability. Just one character, in parts. Must see enviro as a whole. Never in totality, can never know a person in totality. Points out the revival of writers such as Shepherd by the NNWs. Going to a place is like getting to know a stranger - we have not grown up with them (Jamie\u8217\'92s critique of Macfarlane), unlike Shepherd, who consistently went to the same places. Hitt - Eco/geocriticism are the literary/artistic emergences of our autocosmic relationship with nature Hitt - He sees eco-critical texts as criticising earlier works as divorced from actual real nature, instead residing in ideals and the imagination. He sees that need for word and thing to be close as simplistic "drastically narrow" or "misguided in its assumptions about literary representation"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Mountains Of The Mind - One goes to environments to challenge them, to perform within them. Mountain-climbing as an example; \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93an epic endeavour: an encounter with the utmost of all foes, Nature\u8221\'94 (Macfarlane).}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1  How we imagine mountains separately from engaging with them.Pitting oneself against a character. \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Glaciers open themselves up to you when you look closely at them.\u8221\'94\tab }
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1  \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Invisible attacks of altitude\u8221\'94 (character as enviro). Modernity provides a luxury to look at landscapes as something other than utilitarian (p.14). \u8220\'93The space felt vast and malevolently active, as though it were inhaling me; pulling me off into its emptiness.\u8221\'94 \u8220\'93When we look at a landscape, we do not see what is there, but largely what we think is ther.\u8221\'94 - \u8220\'93What we call a mountain is thus in fact a collaboration of the physical forms of the world with the imagination of humans - a mountain of the mind\u8221\'94 - \u8220\'93They do not kill deliberately, nor do they deliberately please: any emotional properties which they possess are vested in them by human imaginations\u8221\'94 - \u8220\'93They are also the objects of human perception; they have been imagined into existence down the centuries. - \u8220\'93Not the ways that people have gone into the mountains, but the ways that they have imagined they were going into them\u8221\'94 Highly related to Nan Shepherd. \u8220\'93For many nineteenth century mountaineers, then, being among the mountains was little more than a roleplaying game\u8230\'85 in which grown men could play at danger\u8221\'94 Weber/McF - \u8216\'91wonder\u8217\'92 is a state in which we are comfortable with not knowing. Macfarlane states that we invest thoughts and emotions into landscape in Wild Places (smith\u8217\'92s reference). Gods as communicative artefacts. Layton - \u8220\'93ritual as a mode of enacting religious thought\u8221\'94.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b1\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b1\i0\cf1 Foundation In Science: }{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Lovelock\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92s Gaia, climate change science. Carraciolo on 'anthropocene' - 'planetary impact of human activities'. Humans are starting to author landscapes even more. Not excursions into nature, but a constant relationship with nature. Biosemiotics - A telos that is internal to nature, not supernaturally (or externally) defined. Qualitative organicism is a position which claims, first, a kind of middle road position, that is, on the one hand, there are no mysterious or non-material vital powers in organisms (non-vitalism), but on the other hand, the characteristic properties of living beings cannot be fully accounted for by physics and chemistry because these properties are nonreducible emergent properties (emergentism) - \u8216\'91saving mr. Nature\u8217\'92 - Anthropomorphisation in conservation discourse increases a sense of connectedness and conservation behaviour, Not just animals, but a 'broader, more abstract target' - ", Atran et al. (2002) reported that Itza' Maya, a culture in the Maya Reserve who believe in the existence of \u8220\'93spirits\u8221\'94 in the environment, exhibit more ecological practices than do other cultures in the neighboring area". Mention biosemiotics again. Tilley - Phenomelogical approaches to landscape archaeology}{\f1\fs22\b1\i0\cf1 . How perception and imaginative engagement with landscape constructs and shapes them - how complex this is, and how complex the landscape is. THe way we encounter landscapes coloured by individual - audience response theory of landscape, here. And a limited viewpoint. "A good phenomenologist is to try to develop an intimacy of contact with the landscape akin to that between lovers" - Nadasdy sees animist beliefs as scientifically valid, and also politically expedient - not just symbolic. "the a priori assumptions" in science and politics about animism are changing. "Euro-American ontological assumptions Povinellio "t the qualitative divides among humans (subject-agents), non-intentional animals (predators-prey), and objects (insentient things)" (1995) - An example of modern rethinking about the utility of ritual. they are starting to have "ontological validity"  THIS STUFF CLOSER TO THE TOP???}
\par\plain \f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b1\i0\cf1 Philosophy & Ethics: }{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Tying popularity of worlds to disenchantment (Weber) of the world (Michael Saler's argument). Post-humanism. object- oriented ontology, a perspective that means in the first instance to grant all objects (cameras and flour and humans and spark plugs and computers and sugar) the same plentitude of being. Talking about "units". (On Latour) - "He gets rid of the human on behalf of perceiving Gaia, the earth\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92s systems. Object-Network Theory. - and the distributed agencies within them" "He gets rid of the human on behalf of perceiving Gaia, the earth\u8217\'92s systems - "a very reasonable longing to reengage the object world" (Bill Brown). Move away from overly anthropocentric - tied to post-secular - back to originating viewpoints of human relations to other forms of matter. An undermining of dualism. Bogost talks about privileging human perception and being. An alien phenomenology would look at non character-led approaches. The "correlationism" of human-focussed ontologies - leading on from rationalism in the enlightenment. FOcussing on 'units' - a flat ontology. For understanding non-human experiences and positions alien phenomenology tries to show the edges of what the experience of other 'units' must be like. Leading to 'wonder' at the "otherworldliness of the world" (Mullins review). The post-secular. \u8220\'93This process of disenchantment is key to the notion of secularization, and central to the thought of Max Weber, Max Horkheimer, Theodor Adorno, John Bossy, Jane Bennett, Charles Taylor, and many others. The enchanted world of the sacred social imaginary was a participatory universe in which all things, and particularly nature, were animate, connected, and potential in ways that could only partially be understood, and only partially controlled.32 By contrast, in the disenchanted world, according to Max Weber\u8217\'92s familiar argument, \u8216\'91\u8216\'91we are not ruled by mysterious or unpredictable forces, but ... on the contrary, we can in principle control everything by means of calculation.\u8217\'92\u8217\'92 Disenchantment - the \u8220\'93iron cage\u8221\'94 of rationalist scientific discourse which removes mysticism in modern society - Frederich Scholler and Max Weber. Positive and negative. An introduction to the post-secular. - a mix of sacred and secular approaches to the world around us. The \u8220\'93unacknowledged middle\u8221\'94 between nature and humanity. \u8220\'93a moment of participatory porousness\u8221\'94 with the world. Not supernatural in nature anymore, but opening oneself to the scientific systems of nature. Does not de-center the self - not human-centered, but not hierarchical or reliant on metaphysical realities beyond nature. Can still be character-based. incomprehensible forces both within it and within ourselves-in-nature, with which we must negotiate. \u8220\'93A post-secular reconceptualisation of our relationship to nature\u8221\'94 Confusing whether nature is an enchanted place, whether we know it through facts or metaphysically, or whether it is ntranscendant. Gross (2018) - is nature writing part of the \u8216\'91post-secular\u8217\'92, what he calls the \u8220\'93scientific sublime\u8221\'94? In its rhetoic, generates awe at the world around us - comes from literature. A \u8220\'93persuasive resouce\u8221\'94 - thrilling our imaginations in a certain way - when we cannot put them into an existing framework, an existing narrative. What Lyon calls the \u8220\'93post-Church head-space\u8221\'94."a culture that is simultaneously secular and religious." - like the post-secular. "scientific findings, news reports, and popular films that turn into proclamations of religious faith, people\u8217\'92s mystical experiences with wild animals, and the celebration of new human-animal families, together form a new creation myth." Talks about actor-network theory - how things can have agencies, be part of large networks of cuase and effect that are emergent - cannot be predicted. Objects and landscapes can be actors in a co-constitutive process. Often about relationality - how landscapes, and people, and processes, are not individuals ina simplistic sense, but are constituted by relations to each other. "the institutions of religion never fully disappear but, rather, are simply temporarily suppressed by the sediment of alternative myths until new social circumstances allow them to re-emerge." - \u8220\'93post material values" and spirituality. distrust of science, they say! Mixed with Heidegeerian phenomenology. (neal Alexander - a sense of place). Suddaby et al - challenges Weber's view of "progressive rationality and disenchantment" - there is still "magic, mystery and enchantment" - There is lots of "re-enchantment" as well. resurgence of religion and the re-enchantment of science." - Weber thought disenchantment was the understanding that everything was calculable. " the optimistic persistence of aesthetics, myth and other aspects of human reflexivity" - " there are powerful forces of disenchantment in the world, but there is also a vast but unexamined element of social and organizational life that is simply not amenable to calculation, science or rationality." Loss of nature-centred world -> human-centred world, for Weber. Cultural critic Akira Mizuta Lippit describes modernity as, \u8216\'91the disappearance of wildlife from humanity\u8217\'92s habitat and the reappearance of the same in humanity\u8217\'92s reflections on itself: in philosophy, psychoanalysis, and technological media such as the telephone, film, and radio\u8217\'92 (Lippit 2000 cited Daston and Mitman 2005). Meaning is diseminated (in Derrida\u8217\'92s sense) through a landscape. Produced as a product of the system, not inherent in any one sign; all interacting together. Re. Greg Garrard - \u8220\'93reason becomes the means to achieving total mastery over nature, now conceived as an enormous, soulless mechanism\u8221\'94.  For hampton - New Nature Writing is a post-secular re-centering of our relationship with place - challenges secular, self-centred disenchanted viewed of nature. Mixing art and science. Away from scientific (solely) accounts of nature\u8220\'93A post-secular reconceptualisation of our relationship to nature\u8221\'94 -  They are (and will have to be) post-human, because they tend toward what has been described as the \u8216\'91flat ontology\u8217\'92 that places human and nonhuman on an increasingly equivalent stand."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Person in a sense that it is now meant legally:}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Reactions to Notre Dame}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Gaia - person as place. }
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Mother earth/earth mother}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Fujiyama - Lord Fuji}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Remember Nurit Bird-David talking about the breadth of personhood.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Deeluze and Guattari - recirpocal networks that are unstructured - hierarchies and binaries. Works for both a conception of landscape }
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 And also natural places/systems - Indian and Kiwi rivers, jungle - a mixture of religious, social, political and scientific imperatives to change the way we interact with entities - and their suitability as chracters.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 'Environmental personhood'}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Eco and geo-criticism - man vs. nature distinction is "untenable at best"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Posthumanist - Badmington - "radically rethinking thedominant, familiar humanist account of who \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93we\u8221\'94 are as human beings" Away from centralist, humanist accounts."automatic and unquestionable hegemony"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Ecocriticism and Geocriticism book - A general reference, "space is of the utmost social importance" - "the manner in which spaces and places are perceived, represented and ultimately used" - Talks about alienation from the world - the tension between man and nature - Talking about paul crutzen and the term 'anthropocene;' - the cartesian split leads to nature/man split as well.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 On Actor-Network Theory And Landscape - The 'actor', rather than the person - a new way to frame it, doesn't even have to be a person. Remember the difference between 'actor' and 'person'. ANT recognises that allobjects and things exhibit consciousness, and through a consciousness, interact heterogeneously in space; the location of the interaction(s), where they are performed homogeneously, is the landscape. " the nonhuman object exhibits consciousness by being connected to the human actor (or consciousness)." - the network created by consciousness. " objects are connected and networked because they are actors waiting to be activated, but they only become things once meaning is instilled in them". Away from dialectic (binary) to interconnectedness (network) - "ANT\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92s paramount significance when studying landscape, allowing the researcher, artist \endash  whoever \endash  to draw upon any entity \endash  theory, object, thing, whatever \endash  in their pursuit for understanding, despite scale, space, place and/or time where they reside" - ANT related to performativity - activities create connections. landscape as a "form or a process" - "ANT suggests that the actor is a number of different things \endash  perhaps human, perhaps nonhuman; maybe conscious, maybe unconscious \endash  and always embodies action (cf. Bruunand Langlais 2003; Butler, 1993). It further suggests that the actor can also be a group of things, and that each thing \endash  as an individual or group \endash  is linked, or networked." - " is best defined as the definitive \u8216\'91stage\u8217\'92 where everyone (and thus, everything) remains involved in production and consumption, whether aware of it or not. "}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 What Is Posthumanism Cary Wolfe -2010 - Again talking about Foucault's 'The Order Of Things' - Posthumanism traced to cybernetics and system thinking - removing us from any "particularly privileged position" -  For him, humanism involves disembodying the human in order to elevate it. For him, posthumanism was before - it is rooted in an evolutionary, timeless idea of the human, not a new one. Going into Lacan, Zizek - what is real/fake, inside/outside - Deleuze and Guattari's pluralism over dualism. Autocosmic is a pluralist approach. Derrida deconstructing the human/animal divide. "neurophysiological organisation" - beings coming together. The "self-referential formal dynamics of meaning... reduce environmental complexity and interface with the world" Coming out of the the MOVEMENT of systems rather than merely the description of them. "the world is an ongoing, differentiated construction and creation of a shared environment, by... entities that have... their own forms of embodiement" The world and its perception is contingent on the interplay between entity and environment. Maturana and Varela say both open and closed - open at a microscopic level, closed at a top level. Where do we 'close' an environment? Where do we encompass it? "rethink our taken-for-granted modes of human experience" - not closed off, but part of the evolutionary, sensory, semiotic realities of other entities in network.But for such ideals, humanity MUST be considered separately because it has grown up with non-natural technologies, most notably (for Derrida) language. "prosthesis" of the human. "changes how we think about normal human experience and how that experience gets refracted or queried in specific modes and media of artistic and cultural practice" - this is also the role of autocosmics, more specifically - it is more than post-human, though draws on it massively. Narrative is, in a posthumanist sense, the methods by which environmental complexity is processed and reduced }
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Posthumanism - Nayar (2014) - An overview on post-humanism - a 'species cosmopolitanism' - 'drawing attention to the constructed nature f the human 'person'' - from non-usual humans through to non-human persons. "taken-for-granted categories of human/non-human" (and person/non-person too) - "a new understanding of 'life' itself" - scientific, social and cultural advances lead us to question the superiority and alterity of humans vs. the rest of the world.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "treat the human itself as an assemblage" (of different influences and co-evolved environments) "CRITICAL posthumanism" not popular (i.e. cyborgs) - "the human as an instantiation of a network of connections... with all forms of life"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "mergers" with other forms -}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Contemporary Animism Book - The whole book provuides examples of animism (a particular, characterised engagement with landscape/environment) in the modern age. Including: - Indigenous beliefs - In novels and literature - beliefs in faeries - eco-paganism - Ethics - Darwinian science - Drug use - Economics - Object theory - Environmentalism - Politics - Animals new approaches to anthropology - "the 'who-ness' rather than the 'whatn-ness' of the world"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Tilley and Cameron-Dunn - all the different layers for understanding a landscape. (list them, then use them in 3.4)}
\par\plain \f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain \f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b1\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1 Conclusion Of Section}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\ri-998\sa820\sl360\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs20\b0\i0\cf1 "environmental aesthetics has undergone a recent resurgence after being almost entirely subsumed by the nineteenth- and twentieth-century trend toward seeing art objects as the only proper recipients of aesthetic interest.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Environments as dynamic, reactive agentful objects of interest in and of themselves has a long history, one which has only increased in 20th and 21st centuries. As in fiction, the boundaries between belief and non-belief are porous - our imaginative engagement with fictional, fictionalised and real environments is muddied. CogSci in EcoCrit: Does not need to be real to instigate environmental awareness. "what storytelling practices, in domains ranging from conservationist discourse and instructional literature to avant-garde fiction and life writing, reveal about (human attitudes toward) the nonhuman world and its inhabitants". \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93narrative fiction would seem to be peculiarly resistant to the operations of ecocriticism.\u8221\'94 (Head), but starting to mix. Part of the \u8220\'93 psychic claims that human beings have made on nature.\u8221\'94 schama says we haven\u8217\'92t just rationally exploited landscape in the West, but been as \u8220\'93myth-struck\u8221\'94 as anybody else. Price - \u8220\'93nature as myth, nature as resource\u8221\'94 - intertwined throughout history. Oscillation between systemic engagement and detached viewing (landscape). Nature Writing as a direct inhabitant of \u8216\'91middle ground\u8217\'92 between belief and distance, fiction and fact, characterisation and science, when it comes to environment. Sympathetic beliefs - Hood et al - We still have sympathetic, animist superstitions - their destruction of photograph experiment - rationalism is not enough. Makes point that despite difference of source material, there are great cognitive similarities in how we process textually-evoked worlds and digitally-simulated spaces. The point is that narrative and space are intertwined. Belief/non-belief, fact and fiction get mixed up on the boundarie of environmental fiction and ecocritical literature.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "neuroscience may show us that personhood is illusory, constructed by our brains and projected onto the world."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Neuroscience may show us that there is no stable concept of persons that applies to the outside world, but instead may show us something in our own heads. THis is not proof that 'landscapes are persons', but does bolster that position.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Westphal - He believes imaginative engagement with real and fictional worlds is fundamental to how we engage with all space}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "reconcile the contemporary with a certain protomodernity" - heterogeneity, complexity - the interconnection of all things.}
\par\plain \f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain \f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1}