{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 ArialMT;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Georgia-Bold;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Georgia;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Georgia-Italic;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red238\green238\blue238;}
{\*\listtable
{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid6\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid6}
{\list\listtemplateid7\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid7}
{\list\listtemplateid8\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid8}
{\list\listtemplateid9\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid9}
{\list\listtemplateid10\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid10}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}{\listoverride\listid7\listoverridecount0\ls7}{\listoverride\listid8\listoverridecount0\ls8}{\listoverride\listid9\listoverridecount0\ls9}{\listoverride\listid10\listoverridecount0\ls10}}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0\ul\ulc0 Section 3.3: Comp-Art, Environments & \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8216\'91Character-As-Environment\u8217\'92}
\par\plain \f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1 Space As Integral To Computational Programs, & Narrative Comp-Art Specifically}
\par\plain \f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 COMPUTATION ITSELF - Manovich pointing out it is inherently spatial, \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8216\'91spatial analogy\u8217\'92 of Donald norman.  "computer technology privileges spatial dimensions" - audio-visual-spatial culture. The role of cybernetics -  its amalgamation of themes of communication and control in computational biological, social, and symbolic systems. Not just space, but environment/ecology. A definition of environment? Environment as system. Vance Byrd review "how spatial metaphors help us imagine how information is organized and how we gain access to it through hypertexts, in "windows," and "cyberspace."" (Tie it to the prototypical qualities from Chapter 2.  For Ryan, digital media is spatial both in how digital media is constructed, how it creates meaning, hgow it represents itsel.(sometimes only metaphorically). "the intricate relationship between games and ecology". Narrative in games is like narrative in painting "not sequence but pure configuration" - no. #3. Computer culture gradually spatialises all representations and experiences - manovich. Manovich - world no longer \u8220\'93petrified\u8221\'94, \u8220\'93mobilised virtual gaze\u8221\'94 - "machines for generating compelling spaces". Koenitz in IDN for chnange talking about the history of calling designers 'architects'. "Space has been a central issue for the study of digital media since the introduction of cyberspace". Calls the ability to act in space in games its "functionality". "the combination of presentation and functionality\u8221\'94 (videogame space book). "Space\hich\f2 \emdash \loch\f2 virtual or real\hich\f2 \emdash \loch\f2 has to be encountered and interacted with". "Through the loophole of virtual space we are able to reclaim the space of the action where we do not \u8220\'93look at\u8221\'94 but actively visit the center of the action." His five types of space in games - rule-based (game system), mediated (what the player experiences), fictional space (imagination), play space (between game and player in real world) and social space (with other humans) - relate to autocosmic interaction with space in life.Need all of them in combination for a game. Talks (17-18) about how games, being simulations on computer, were always about space "Collisions, spatial rela- tions of bodies to each other, audiovisual representations of the environment, interaction with objects in the world and with the world itself\hich\f2 \emdash \loch\f2 all necessarily highlight the spatial qualities of the game." He does not conflate all kinds of digial 'space' (for example, hypertext) - he is talking about 3D games. Hypertext is much less complex, spatially, than a 3D environment. Calls game makers "space-makers" - "provides experiences through the structure of the virtual world" "As Wertheim argues: \u8220\'93Despite its lack of physicality, cyberspace is a real place. I am there\hich\f2 \emdash \loch\f2 whatever this statement may ultimately turn out to mean\u8221\'94 (2000, 229; italics in original). " Tied to cybernetic. Systemic and environmental are tied up. WHERE IS THE PLACE - Gives an overview of using 'dimensions for structuing information and interaction'.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 HAS VERY MUCH ARISEN IN COMP-ART (AND HERITAGE) - Ryan 2001 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8216\'91habitable environment\u8217\'92, \u8220\'93Simulated, rule-governed worlds.\u8221\'94 (Turkle p 78), Montfort talks about it in IF, Gazzard 2011 - games are a spatial medium, "complex and imaginative graphic realms". What A+C call \u8216\'91scenes\u8217\'92. Her ariosto piece determines how space is used in games., P83 - game\u8217\'92s obsession with enviro as inherited from cinema\u8217\'92s movile framing/exploration of space. "This is what the medium of videogames is made for: the exploration of carefully designed environments" - disagree with him that the beings are also good and a part of this... only as props to a landscape. Murray - Digital environments are \u8220\'93procedural, participatory, spatial and encyclopedic.\u8221\'94. Manovich - Movement "as a tool of narration and exploration" - Navigables pace not just an interface but a cultural form in its own right (his words) - "space's symbolic... capital" across human history. Havot & Wesp - \u8220\'93virtual world geographies\u8221\'94, The history of interactive fiction, as a genre, is a history of narratives of confinement and imprisonment. [theHouse] (Mary Flanagan) - example of early use of 3D environment with text to explore "a relationship between two people coming apart ina confined space". Like Scottish game about abusive relationship - All Roads (Jon Ingold) - another early example of IF being about a space, using space to tell stories, the spatial relationships between characters (in this case, Venice). Curtain - claustrophobia of a space = calustrophibia of a relationship. Chapter #3 - The Great Fire Of London In Minecraft (Museum Of London) - Off The Map (London) (other heritage examples, from Machidon) - Tony Patrickson's That - player's face is the game area (character as environment). La Maison Sensible - installation that rests, that can react to players. Space as character. }{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Typically, videogames create \u8216\'91worlds\u8217\'92, \u8216\'91lands\u8217\'92 or \u8216\'91environments\u8217\'92 for players to explore, traverse, conquer, and even dynamically manipulate and transform\u8230\'85\u8221\'94 (Newman, 2004, p.108). }{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Mapmaking a "constructive process" in digital - not describing, but creating (Worlds and Maps) - cartogenetic - the making of maps of places, rather than the mapping of places.  Epidauros Amphitheatre, Boardshead and Rose Theatre. A game environment does a lot of things. It\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8230\'85 1. Constrains and guides player movement through physical properties and ecology 2. Uses player reference to communicate simulation boundaries and affordance 3. Reinforces and shapes player identity 4. Provides narrative context. Arose out of "the spatial narrative that had played a prominent role in European visual culture for centuries" (paintings, etc.). p. 232 - "for centures, a spatialized narrative in which all images appeared simultaneously dominated." Therefore narrative does not have to be linear. Laure points out that fiction does this as well - spatial and temporal, cannot detach the two. (I.e. Proust). Spatial vs. temporal art (a distinction made my Lessing (re. Ryan)) is brought together by the simulatory mode in computation. LEssings idea that temporal = narrative is misplaced. ENvironments are highly narrative, and highly autocosmic. Even in IF (When My Boyfriend Came Back From The War). "navigable space... accomplishes the same effects that before were created by literary and cinematic narrative." - \u8220\'93These players evaluate the realism and the ironic elements of GTA's cities by drawing on their existing knowledge of real American cities and of other media depictions of these places. \u8220\'93 As in chapter 1, we engage with gameworld in many of the same ways that we engage with real world. \u8220\'93the gameworld functions as a meaningful place\u8221\'94 (Miller) Calleja\u8217\'92s \u8216\'91spatial involvement\u8217\'92. Henry Jenkins - "game designers don't simply tell stories: they design worlds and sculpt spaces." "The history of videogames reveals an almost linear trajectory of increasingly rich and integrated ecologies of gameworlds." - "I have compared a playable space that people can enter under the guise of an avatar and transform through their actions with a fictional space, which can only be modified by the creatures of the author and only accessed by the reader's imagination. A complete fusion of game and story should be able to combine both types of experience." " Another channel Wolf explores is \u8220\'93Interactivation\u8221\'94 which is the building and engagement of a world through video, computer, immersive and digital technologies." Calleja paper - "The spatial structures of games have an important influence on the structure of the narrative." Nitsche - 2007 - spatiotemproal (both important) in games. "The argument here is that game spaces evoke narratives because the player is making sense of them in order to engage with them. Through a comprehension of signs and interaction with them, the player generates new meaning. The elements that are implemented in the game world to assist in the comprehension will be called \u8220\'93evocative narrative elements,\u8221\'94 because they do not contain a story themselves but trigger important parts of the narrative process in the player. These processes can lead to the generation of a form of narrative." "Game spaces are approached not as foregrounded spectacles based on visual cues such as perspective and parallax but as presented spaces that are assigned an architectural quality. "  "Narrative is seen as a form of understanding of the events a player causes, triggers, and encounters inside a video gam space. From this vantage point, part I reframes key principles of narratology in the context of video game spaces before discussing quests as space-driven content structures for these narrative elements." " not all games depend or support such a placeness" - "The game world remains spatial but lacks the quality of a place." He applies architectural theories to game space - the crafting of space to have meaning, defined by its use. Can influence use and use can influence space. Games do this. Space gaining symbolic value in architecture (drawing on Norberg-Schulz) Explicitly makes links to Herman's 'storyworld' concept - our cognitive map of a fictive world and its systemic relations which constantly change, and for which narratives are a prompt to map them. Makes point that space is not generated through reading the discourse, space generates the discourse, in games. Herman focuses on narratives generating space, rather than the other way around. "games became able to deploy concrete worlds to the player" - she sees it as moving to in-world activities from abstract actions that accounts for greater popularity of games. Na Pali - they are "world-forgers", "something to be navigated and traversed" and "the construction of space that is also a place". In Na Pali - Game 'environments' are not necessarily the encoded environments - code and assets - but the EXPERIENCED spaces. For her, space = game and place = narrative. \u8220\'93The tensions and unities between space and place lie at the heart of most game narratives.\u8221\'94 - "convincing and compelling places to explore". "In a virtual environment then, the setting should also be aninteractive artifact" - }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "Game environments thus refer generally to the apparent virtual worlds presented by art and programming, and specifically to those worlds\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92 ecological implications." }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 We have a cybernetic relationship with environments - a closed signal loop - and with virtual environments as well (that is a bridge)}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain \f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1 Resonance (Placeness) Of Digital Spaces}
\par\plain \f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Martin, 2011 - }{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93the landscape demands our attention throughout the game. We get to know it intimately whether we stick to the quest, pursue the side-quests or wander aimlessly about.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 "It is up to the designers of the video game space to deliver the evocative narrative elements that support the construction of the story map in such a way that the reading allows for a meaningful interpretation."}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 For him -> from cognitive maps comes "story maps" - how we map space in games onto narrative meaning. An interplay of presentation and functionality}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 To make a digital space a place, we must have a digital identity within it. We must come to have a relationship with it. We must act within it, assign it personal values. Also by allowing for unexpected actions. What unexpected actions are there in combination with my creature? Spaces that are used, interacted with, become place.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 Place is resonant space.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 "successful gameplay requires that players negotiate environments by discovering their operative logics, games are structurally predisposed toward creating meaningful interaction within artificially intelligent environments and modeling dynamics long at the core of ecological thinking". "Game environments might also evoke other, more common senses of the word environment\hich\f2 \emdash \loch\f2 as biological systems (what we mean when we refer, for instance, to the native}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 habitat of an animal species), and as a human ethical orientation to one\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92s surroundings (evident in the rhetorical and moral impulses behind efforts to save \u8220\'93the environment\u8221\'94). These valences of environment should not be seen simply as supervening layers added by critical interpretation, but as relationships and orientations embedded in the same visuals and mechanics that determine gameplay." AS SYSTEM }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2  Humans as both part of (engaging in) the environment, but also distinct from it through the necessity of perception of self/other (same in digital environments) - }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 "he player\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92s experience of highly evolved procedural rhetoric, or the playing through of a game\u8217\'92s complex processual argument. Games are filled with both implicitly and}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 explicitly crafted encounters with algorithmically generated environments, and some of these encounters qualify as sublime ones\hich\f2 \emdash \loch\f2 combining admiration and fright in ways that can potentially stir players to action, judgment, or reflection beyond the games themselves."}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 "players operate within a multitude of environmental parameters that determine not only what the game world looks like, but also how it responds to player input."}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 The modern sublime  - "The seductiveness of the Internet might also be explained when we take into account the peculiar unpresentablity of cyberspace." We don\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92t need to go to these places and act, but we do. Useufl to the sublime is the distant \u8220\'93possibility of self-destructioN\u8221\'94 - virtuality is good for the sublime. You are never too close to danger.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 Tied to resonance - " The role of space in technology depends on active reception"}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 Costikyan on epistemics.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 "Virtual space is a product of human knowledge and depends on logic, software, and hardware development... That is why at its core and at the moment of its}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 creation, it is spatial but not a place....  "In order for these data visualizations to become meaningful, they have to be engaged by the player. Through the active work of the player, through comprehension and interaction, the masses of polygons can transform into places. A genius loci is often defi ned by subjective experience of the location."}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 strategic game-space can be mapped onto a mimetic narrative space that represents a world.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Often an "autotelic activity" - part of the joy itself).}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 The need for a \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93great world\u8221\'94 (Strik).}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1        Horses in videogames - unerring companions (Roach, Red Dead, Skyrim/Oblivion, Wander in Shadow of the Collosusalways used to name them in the console), silent, tactical, agents in the countryside, probably the closst. You talk to it - a synaesthetic relationship; your button presses both move the horse and cause your character to touch it - people talking about horses being an extension of them (centaurs, chimera character) in games- an extension of you, or of the landscape. Relating to the landscape. Colours complementing, can already jump fences.  }
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\ri-1332\sb85\sl360\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Bogost defines between mathematical and dynamic sublimity - the function of time and movement makes a game environment dynamically sublime. It depends whether you are interacting with the systems as to which sublimity is relevant. }
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Rayner (GS) - \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93I spent so much time playing that game I could have probably worked as a taxi driver there. It was a beautifully realised piece of design\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "Environmental stories invite players to discover and reconstruct a fixed story from the environment itself."}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Not just representation of space, but systemic space.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 " the interactive process of virtual navigation mirrors active participation in the real world"}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Murray - spatiality part of digital media - not from representation, but interactive navigation - the functionality of space.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 The best open-world videogames capture this rhythmic continuity of space. (Keogh) }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Tavinor - discovery/disclosure in games as narrative technique.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93\~The landscape is not only something seen and read but also something inhabited and traversed.\~\u8220\'93 - so can character\u8217\'92s be!}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 The immersive quality of these games lies as much in the responsiveness of their world as in the pursuit of the game goals.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 Playing group talking about landscape as an enactor, as positive - and in my skyrim study -  Skyrim \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93a beautifully realised world\u8221\'94. Weather, size, variety, cylcical, random events/behaviour - \u8220\'93give it character\u8221\'94 - both space and ecosystem. }{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Fish in the shallows that you can pick up and catch.}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2  "the core narratives behind many games center around the struggle to explore, map, and master contested spaces (Fuller and Jenkins 1994; Jenkins 1998)"}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 In Skyrim, exploring, working out how spaces connect, what they mean.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 I have tried to find the transitions between different landscapes - it is like travelling through moods in conversation with a person - but it is too pluralistic, and I am too wrapped up in them to notice.Bugs over the water The edges are harder to find.}
\par\pard\plain \ri-1332\sl360\slmult1\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1 . "the intricate relationship between games and ecology". }
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Not just a picture of a world, but an "entire world-structure" (riles etc.) }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Game designers routinely theme game spaces\u8230\'85 to provide players with a mental attitude well-honed in the real world\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls3\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 Experience as a system, as an interactor. }{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 discovery (as costikyan points out, can be epistemological discovery)}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls3\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 As enactor of narratives - systemic games, open-world games - where the narratives come from. }{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "significant developments in representation of gameworlds." Well-developed tools and methodologies for creating them. Jenkins Narrative Architecture - when environmental elements are used cohesively, no one has to say anything...the world speaks for itself as the player moves through it. Walking simulators as well - from aesthetic to systemic, the landscape functions as the enactor, the agent, of narrative. Where \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8216\'91exploratory\u8217\'92 or \u8216\'91ontological\u8217\'92.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Shadows of the Collosus 'living levels'.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 Smith and Worch - \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93what happened here?\u8221\'94 - \u8220\'93}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 involving the player in interpreting information\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8221\'94. Landscape becomes not just visual detail but "a process, oscillating between looking-at and moving-through" - landscape as something to use.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Yang - how levels talk.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Games use the monomyth - spatial storytelling - flawed, but an example of spatial storytelling arising from religion}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Skyrim makes a fantastic impression not because its individual elements are sharply honed, but because they contribute to a grander whole.\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8214\'3F (VanOrd, 2011)}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f3\fs22\b0\i1\cf1\cb2\highlight2	\loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f3\fs22\b0\i1\cf1\cb2\highlight2 Fog of war in games - getting to know the landscape gradually, its caharacter gradually revealed.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "Games teach us how to examine the environment, or space, around us." "spatial relationships are, of course, critically important to us."}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Exploration is one of our main reasons for playing a game - to know an environment.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Drawing on our embodiement from previous section - "In a game we continually inhabit the present, trying to make sense of ourselves and our positions in space.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Time and space is used as a reward in games - Gazzard 2011.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93 indexical storytelling \u8221\'94  (Fern\u225\'E1ndez-Vara 2011)" - environmental storytelling}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 YOU CANNO T AFFECT THE CHARACTER OF LANDSCAPE IN ANY BINARY WAY - only in small ways, picking flowers here and there. They add up. Rather be in a world without people. Totally focussed on the environment, at the expense of myself or my character.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93provide not just elegiac contemplation, but recognition that such processes are still going on\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 It has an \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93ecology\u8221\'94 - the systems and interrelated objects within it.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "the viewer can learn relationships between systems\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8221\'94 (Ryan)}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Believability\u8221\'94/\u8221\'94plausability\u8221\'94 is still important. }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 An ecological approach, for Barton, means connecting up the different systems into an ecosphere - could be the same for characters.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93The environment is also a character with which you can interact. You can explore it, learn more about it. It can attack you in the form of creatures, or hypothermia, or long falls. It can change in the picking of plants, the weather, footprints, looted containers.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "With environmental presence the individual affects and is affected by the outside world. If there is social presence we affect others in a virtual world. If there is cultural presence we should be able to detect a distinctly situated sense of inhabitation, of social values and behaviors preserved and transmitted through ritual, artefact and inscription."}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 He thinks it is important to see space not as a static thing, but as something defined by dynamics, systemics, by used and traversal. This is certainly the case with characters as well - characters change.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Massey\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92s idea that place is not fixed, but a \u8220\'93spatio-temporal event\u8221\'94 - just like characters. Cannot have dead environments. Opposed to LiFu Tuan, who says it is fixed.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93A well designed world could tell its story in silence.\u8221\'94 [21]}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Resequencing evidence\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "As the player moves through Dear Esther, he or she must fill the gaps of the \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93thin\u8221\'94 landscape by drawing from reservoirs of emotional, intellectual, and physical experience."}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls3\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1  "Space creates narrative in all senses" (Zimmerman & Salen). Ryan\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92s ideas of plot relate to this - uncovering mysteries in environment, and epic narratives are basically \u8216\'91travel stories\u8217\'92}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls4\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Miller-  \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93layers also develop a strong sense of place in each gameworld\hich\f2 \emdash \loch\f2 not just navigable space, but place}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Carbo-Mascarell points out that walking simulation is not passive. \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93 games with an immersive use of exploration as a core mechanic utilised for environmental storytelling purposes\u8221\'94,  }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Richly interpretable information (Biederman and Vessel in Bateman 2014). }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Miller (2008)  \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93the exploration of hidden stories embedded in the landscape\u8221\'94.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 The looping, randomised animation of trout swimming up the waterfall. Such a simple little animation. The bugs flying at the water's edge. Your curiosity is rewarded; you can pluck them out of the air, a granularity of detail which still shocks.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Bogdanovych on believability of space.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93manifest the haptic qualities of the landscape\u8221\'94 - \u8220\'93the player-game connection is not simple mimesis, but mental and physical investment as intention and action are directed towards the game world."}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Firewatch - getting to know a character through an environment.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Bernband - a sense of place. "vibrant nightlife of... alien city"}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Klug p223 - \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93in the end, it\u8217\'92s the island itself, and the vast number of interesting people and places therein, that players most enjoy and remember about Morrowind\u8221\'94 - remember places more than people, who are nodal. The character of Vvardenfell itself.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Martin points out the sublime\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8230\'85 the \u8220\'93shudder\u8221\'94 .}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "That is the crux of walking sims. They are so open to interpretation, so dependent on the attitude of the player as much as the quality of the game on offer. "}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "For most players, the depth of the game world is directly tied to the game\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92s validity as a simulation."}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 The goal - "the idea of the game world as a living, dynamic navigable space-in other words, an ecosphere."}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 He is talking about the difference between real and "belivable, holistic, consistent worlds}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 p. 161 - "space is often used as a surrogate for time"}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Alexander Muscat on ambiguity in First-Person Walkers}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "Gaver et al. argues that while ambiguity is often considered \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93anathema in Human Computer}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Interaction\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8221\'94 it is a resource for design \u8220\'93that can be used to encourage close personal}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Are we more tolerant of ambiguity with place? An alienness and a familiarity (all at once) - "ambiguous and contemplative digital game experiences through minimal interactions."}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 engagement with systems\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8221\'94 (2003, 233)."}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "a player\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92s perception of the game world may be refocused to that of an investigator or close observer, via a strict adherence to minimal interactivity and slow, limited pacing"}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 We are more willing to chunk a landscape in a sympathgetic way than a human.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 In FPWs, slow walking speed contributes to contemplation - cannot 'chunk' the landscape so easily. No jumping etc. (Muscat) Also caused by limited opportunities for interaction.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Lack of distance from our connections to online places (p193-194)}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Champion (2003) 'memento maps' - not just what is in the space, but ones that relate to personal memories.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "Friedman offers a comparable concept to the story map proposed here: \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93geography itself is not the protago- nist; rather, the protagonist\u8217\'92s experience of geography structures the narrative\u8221\'94. }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 But Friedman\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92s conclusions that a map in a simulation is \u8220\'93the hero of the story\u8221\'94 (ibid.) contradicts the concept of the story map pro posed here. Space contains the triggers for comprehension, but it is not the hero of the story. A story map is the result of a player\u8217\'92s comprehension of the discourse with the video game space. It is not present in the game itself  but evoked by it."}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "Ryan refers to this approach: \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93If the body in space is the dominant theme of VR narratives, the most important  component of the plot will be the setting, and the narrative structures will be predominantly epic: the user will explore fantastic landscapes, navigate a space fragmented into multiple domains (the rooms of a castle, the diversified geography of an island, even the books of a library), take possession of virtual worlds through movement and action, or achieve intimacy with the environ ment\u8221\'94 (2001b, 322)."}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "encourages players to consider the virtual environment as something not to be \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8216\'91overcome\u8217\'92, but as a subject of interest in itself and enjoyed as a subject of care-free, sustained inquiry and thought."}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "Wolf suggests that all these elements work together to create the \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93gestalt\u8221\'94 of a world which gives it, in varying degrees, a sense of reality and depth.  - systems interlocking. "a sense of wholeness or oneness that allows it to be referred to as a single thing" - a "world" how can we say where the boundaries of a world are - as to where the boundaries of a character is? "video games that can be so elaborate... one can never be sure that one has seen and experienced everything"}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Tilley says representations of landscapes are derivative, not directly experienced, not changing systematically in space-time: but computational landscapes are!}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Na Pali - A deep dive into a videogame space. About the power and immersivity of this world. The thrill of discovery, or getting to know old worlds better. The nature of the Unreal world as not something to 'claim', or get to know - no map, you cannot conquer it. Mysteries in the distance, cannot access them, always moving forward. The use of 'mystery' and 'opacity' in gameworlds like Unreal's. Links Unreal's environments to the sublime.Mathematical (size) and dynamic (interactive) sublime. "something interesting to do... and somewhere interesting to be". "slow unveiling of the world" in unreal. The music of the game is part of the environment.  She tries to draw place-led, fictive rationalies for the game-design decisions (guns on pedestals) - gun-worshipping religion?}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1  Erik Champion - \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93"Culture has a setting and this setting is enabled through a perceived sense of place. As culture requires a setting, it must be \u8220\'93embedded in real-life situations, in temporally and spatially specific ways.\u8221\'94 (Crang 1988, 1). While unique, place is further an \u8220\'93integration of elements of nature and culture\u8230\'85linked to other places by circulation\u8221\'94 (Lukermann, referred to in Relph 1986, 3)."}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "Finally, a virtual environment has to be writable; a user must be able to leave their mark on it." "A digital place needs to have narrative fecundity and to be inscribed by multiple perspectives." "Johnson seems to be arguing that the most engaging three-dimensional environment would be socially associative, interactive, and task-orientated." "If place as location is a nexus of environmental forces or attributes, we can learn about place in relation to culture by human behavior and perhaps even infer specific mental attitudes by the ways in which humans respond to these environmental forces."}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Eco - a game that is interested in a rich simulation of place. Involves other players, but allied in a relationship with the world. }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 A virtual ecology in the extreme.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 The Conversation, RDR2 - \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93virtual ecologies\u8221\'94 - "Video games have grown in scale and complexity to the point where intricate virtual ecosystems of this kind are now possible, with flora and fauna living and behaving in these virtual worlds as they do in ours." - a reductive statement, but still.  open-world games - "dynamic and interactive ecosystems. They have plants that can be foraged and a variety of wildlife that demonstrate complex AI-driven behaviour, interacting with the player and each other."}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Richly simulated systems which can be richly interacted with. "As games increasingly use ecology as a core gameplay feature"}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Talks about architecture in the Witness}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1  \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8216\'91place\u8217\'92 makes digital experience more engaging and realistic if place has the following characteristics:}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Characteristics of real-world places}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u183\'B7  Recordable-Place gains unique character through the passage of time and use in}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 relation to the ebb and flow and interaction of dynamic physical and climatic changes}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u183\'B7  Evocative-Place is evocative, it conjures up pictures or images of its previous self or}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 related activities or past similar places}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u183\'B7  Referential and hybrid: Place is full of references and evocations of related places-we}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 also populate Place with artifacts from other places.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Desired features of a virtual environment}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u183\'B7  Attenuating environmental forces (for example, wind, fog, rain, directional and}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 dynamic lighting, sound, perhaps even varying vision acuity).}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u183\'B7  The ability to be affected (modified) so that formal traces of the activity of interactors}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 etc and of the passing of time remain (including modification by attenuating}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 environmental forces).}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u183\'B7  Specific details (topography, textures).}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u183\'B7  A way of triggering past associated environments or events that the virtual}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 environment thinks a visitor has been to.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u183\'B7  Tasks, events artifacts externs and complex interactors (agents) that are specifically}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 place-associated, (for example, actors at certain times may be able to move certain}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 artifacts, but they will only be able to place or leave them in specific places).}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1  SOME criticism - "Games are predominantly artifactual settings of instant use and destruction"}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 In Comparison To Dearth Of Characters}
\par\plain \f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1\cb2\highlight2
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls5\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 REMEMBER - AS MENTIONED IN LAST CHAPTER}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 In my skyrim study - }{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Towns showed far more subtle understanding of power relations that the people. Characters rote, predetermined.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Machidon on scheduling - good, but still quite LARGE-SCALE. And crowds.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Functioning as NODES.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Rayner (GS) - the characters he interacted with were \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8216\'91extras\u8217\'92, cannot remember which ones. \u8220\'93Wasn\u8217\'92t paying too much attention to him\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93The VHs are simply actors playing their part for increased realism."}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Machidon makes it sound that virtual humans are always in subservience to the space being represented - furniture.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "Hence, vitual worlds without virtual human agents and social interaction tend to be perceived by the users as boring and empty environments".}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 All resources are spread across the whole system, and as characters are only a small part of that, they only get a little bit of attention.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Unlike the hero or Martin, the landscape is a compelling, albeit unconventional, character.\~\u8220\'93}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "Left less explored were the other aspects of realistic, physical environments. The inner thoughts and outward behavior of simulated people, for example, beyond the fact of their collision with other objects. The problem becomes increasingly intractable over time. Incremental improvements in visual fidelity make 3-D worlds seem more and more real. But those worlds feel even more incongruous when the people that inhabit them behave like animatronics and the environments work like Potemkin villages."}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 The environments reacting BACK to us - us having a relationship with them.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Environments can \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93orthogonally broadcast\u8221\'94 - communicate on many different levels. Nodal characters do not do this}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 IN sKYRIM - working out where animal\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92s territories are - the most important relationships I have are with the environment.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 The spaces, rather than characters, that are richly computational.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls3\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 Paul Martin - \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93The landscape, unlike the secondary characters, is always there.\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls6\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Often empty, or focussing around environmental interaction.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls6\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "[The landscape] is more real than the people who inhabit it. - quote from Cononor Sherlock for Ossian}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls6\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1  \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93the island itself is perhaps the most important ghost\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls6\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1   Me wanting to stay away from towns in Skyrim.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls6\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1   \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93No animal life on the island\u8221\'94 (Carbo-Mascarell)}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls6\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 No Man\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92s Sky - about universes, not peoples.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls6\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Characters in Gone TO The Rapture - just ghosts - not interactive - a landscape of memories, a palimpsest, that is who you are interacting with.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 capturing the subtelty of place, not subtely of person.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Patrick wilson - complexity of behaviour is often down to complex environment rather than complex agent.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Chopped down trees - evidence of human activity - the environment carrying the futile characterisation of the actual agent NPCs.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 As Adam Smith says in \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93The Joy of NPC Schedules\u8221\'94, }{\f3\fs22\b0\i1\cf1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93GTA\u8217\'92s citizens don\u8217\'92t have individual lives. They spawn to act as props. In those cities, everyone except the characters in the cutscenes is an extra, shipped in to add some local flavour and occasionally fed a few lines of dialogue, but never expected to establish themselves within the narrative or even within the location itself.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f3\fs22\b0\i1\cf1	\loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f3\fs22\b0\i1\cf1 The ease of spatial immersion leads to the heroic, traversive plot having primacy in game narratives. And 'prototypical epistemics'}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "blight" of "exposition graffiti" - \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93"Informational graffiti" in games has become somewhat of a trope now in game design\u8221\'94.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1  ---Last Seed, 18th, 4E 201-\hich\f2 \emdash \loch\f2  The wolf is stupid; it plunges straight into the stream after me. Wolves do not do this. They would freeze to death. But here the wolf-machine has no freezing mechanism, nor has that fear of water been authored. The freezing mechanic is not needed to deliberately and shallowly author believable behaviour. ---Last Seed, 17th, 4E 201-\hich\f2 \emdash \loch\f2  The Radiant AI is easy to interrogate into inadequacy - watching a deer on the shoreline near Riverwood, I started to see the rough edges of its animation, the planar weirdness of its stance, the repetition. I'll try approaching it.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls7\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 The environment is seen as something fixed, therefore easier to put story into. THis idea that it is EASIER. }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "the appeal of broken worlds" - Points out that gaming tropes "developed... through a process that is valid and important" - it must be engaged with. Must look at why we are obsessed with death, and broken worlds, as a way to allow agency, to overcome technical approaches - When we are not finding the corpses of people, we find the corpses of places\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8221\'94 - "In time, this self-perpetuating skew becomes a fetish, a fascination, a paraphilia."}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Bogost - \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93 the empty ruined world has become too common in games\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f3\fs22\b0\i1\cf1	\loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f3\fs22\b0\i1\cf1 Disagree with Crawford on \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8216\'91spatial vs social reasoning\u8217\'92.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Such works do not simulate personhood directly, or expose it to the unpredictable interactions of the player; instead, such works present storyworlds in which, for narrative reasons, the characterisation is firmly preterite and pre-executed; scenarios in which the aesthetic is one of loneliness, pathos and introspection. The solitary player-character explores the }{\f3\fs22\b0\i1\cf1 "emptiness of the environment" }{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 (Bogost),  performing he paradigmatic, easily-rendered physical and ludic actions and collecting pre-authored and static narrative components which represent the characters as foregone conclusions, with no need for present execution. Instead, the systemic, interactive procedure is dedicated to spatial exploration and manipulation of these objects, rather than a systemic or interactive procedure centred on those characters in a 'live' sense. I will detail this approach in more detail in Chapter 3, when I relay my own approach to computational character; it is perhaps currently the most popular compromise between the systemics of comp-art and the techniques of traditional art, and has been employed from early videogames such as }{\f3\fs22\b0\i1\cf1 Myst }{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 (Perlin)}{\f3\fs22\b0\i1\cf1  }{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 to more recent 'interactive experiences' such as }{\f3\fs22\b0\i1\cf1 Dear Esther}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1  (Pinchbeck) and }{\f3\fs22\b0\i1\cf1 The Witness}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1  (Blow), and its ready adoption in discourses as disparate as the artgame () and virtual heritage (LaMotta, 2012), belies the abnegation of the potential of computational characterisation that it represents. It is what Calleja calls a }{\f3\fs22\b0\i1\cf1 "ruins fetish" }{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 (2011); a trope which artfully handles the formal issues of character through the employment of }{\f3\fs22\b0\i1\cf1 "virtual pasts instead of virtual presents" }{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 (LaMotta, 2012), but which in its overuse constricts the discourse to a non-computational solution to computational character.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Bogost - \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Rockstar\u8217\'92s continued resistenace to moving beyond the stock affordances\u8230\'85 [of simulating] the physical world to model inner lives\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 NPCs sitting in one place or being destroyed outside of player locale.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Characterization in Absentia - eMILY SHorT - \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93ruins fetish\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Compare to \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8216\'91truth spots\u8217\'92 - }{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 Truth-spots - work well (ruins) - \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93a remnant of the struggle between culture and nature, as the once-built bends to the ravages of wild time\u8221\'94. }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93A character is just a tiny element of any game, and in many cases, it is a superfluous element." - this is the start of the problem.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "An interactive character is usually a brittle representation, often teetering at the edge of unreality; architecture is much easier than psychology. Games that do make heavy use of interactive NPCs often run into discomfort when those characters are instrumentalized as gameplay tokens."}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "palaces are cheap and kings are expenses", "architecture substitutes for psychology."}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93But neither the hero nor the secondary characters are ever as eloquent, as dramatic, or as moving as the landscape itself. Indeed, the characters frequently come close to undoing, through a ropey script and stilted delivery, the epic image that the landscape works so hard to establish and sustain.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 Games designers stick to genres that most invested in world-building and spatial storytelling (Jenkins). }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "the emptiness of the environment becomes essential to its operation".}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Lek\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92s worlds are empty as well. About exploring. - Lawrence Lek uses environments to explore social and political issues - haunting music, no characters.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Meredith points out the issue is that there are no actors in these worlds.You are on your own. The worlds have not been inhabited by \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93sentient actors\u8221\'94 - as with Champion, no culture.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Characters in this kind of RPG are often highly stylised and clich\u233\'E9d. As Henry Jenkins has suggested of \u8220\'93spatial stories\u8221\'94 more generally, characters are \u8220\'93stripped down to the bare bones\u8221\'94, taking a back seat to the description or presentation of elaborate worlds (2004, p. 122).\~\u8220\'93}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Tavinor's idea of "props" leads onto "nodes".}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Martin - \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 \~In fact it is not character, which is often under-written, and dialogue, which is often clunky, which most successfully sustain these themes. Rather, it is space and place.\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8221\'94So I suspect that we can gain a sense of cultural presence without experiencing explicit social presence. " }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 NPCs as a type of epistemic affordance - anode to get to know the game world - even with complex behaviours. (Tavinor)}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "characters are like objects" - nodes within the world - written onto them. But always at a remove. YOu are their god}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Dias - Bioshock Infinite "couldn't cope with living spaces at all"}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "can create a remarkable sense of place while still being remarkably limited when it comes to defining characters. "}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "logic behind day-to-day behaviours of NPCs" - again, nodal, but actually is more a part of the world feeling "alive" than individual characterisation.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 RAyner (GS) - Skyrim gameworld - hey're dynamic. Things like the day/night cycle, weather and (possibly) music all seem to change realistically. I think they're probably very complex under the bonnet. I think I'm right in saying that Skyrim is programmed to have events involving characters happening that aren't in anyway scripted - fights between animals, stuff like that. Or maybe I'm thinking of another game...}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93All of these games, despite their promise of unknown lands, give no indication of anything intelligent other than players existing in these lands.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 burying puzzle hints in banal NPC convos. That's all that they are there for - to enrich the world and serve as puzzle nodes.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Study group - People in towns repeating same lines.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 The effort put into the imagining and realisation of worlds, especially the visual detail of those worlds, isn\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92t matched by the stories told and the words spoken. - John Lanchester}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 De Gruyter paper - the arctic base - just buildings, no humans.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Reference in 'The Girl In The Bell Tower' for audio logs as an environmental trope.Kira's story is wrapped up in the environment - she is the only other cocnrete human character, but your engagement with her is environmental. Following kira, resulting in a corpse. You never actually meet her. "you weren't meant to find Kira alive."  What is commanding our ATTENTION, in these worlds? With what are we INTERACTING? The worlds, often, rather than the people. Even if only a metaphor.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 NPCS - "their rapture would leave no trace"}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Phenomenology of real and virtual spaces - "agents... regard me in a reactionary way based on my proxemics". You can see the lack of depth in his essay (of Skyrim's world)}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain \f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1 Solution: Character As Environment}
\par\plain \f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls8\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Join with ideas (particularly econarratology) from last section. "How can narrative elevate the nonhuman \endash  material objects, but also large-scale processes such as globalization or the weather \endash  to the position of a character?"}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 People in religion also thought the real world was authored, and everything significant.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Is it possible to generate dramatic entertainment via computers? Drama requires}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 conflict and engagement, and agents are a quick way to create a sense of challenge}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 and competition. Are characters enough to create a story? Do they require a highly}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 sophisticated form of AI? For our purposes, this does not seem to be necessary.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 What may be necessary (at least for built heritage) is a developed spatial setting as}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 a \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8216\'91storyspace\u8217\'92. }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Dennett uses a computer as something thaat we can take all 3 stances to}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Agents are just systems, like everything.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 The Last Guardian - \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93this creature isn\u8217\'92t like the cute pets that exist in other games, or an ally that\u8217\'92s really useful\u8230\'85 an experience that people have never had before.\u8221\'94 He is, in fact, like an environment. Benevolent Boss Character}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls3\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Is the world something akin to a principal actor, taking center stage, or rather a mechanism for more complex interaction, in and of itself? Is it merely there as a non-interactive vessel for some other form of gameplay?\u8221\'94 (Noah Berry)}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls8\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 How does this come out of the autocosmic mindset?}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 AI as spatial/relational - move beyond mechanical metaphor and tie this to narrative/character construction (we talk about ARCHITECTURES).}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Caraciolo - does character HAVE to be human-like? "unsettle the metaphysical primacy of the human".}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 The alien and sevastopol are almost one. It is the environment that is the enemy: an almost-animist experience. Ed Smith - Sevastopol is the actual enemy. }{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 the alien - "perhaps the mosst remarkable NPC I have ever encountered in a videogame." - "Movement through space" is youkr best defence"The creature is the environment - needs to be in that environment - it is essentially an animist spirit of the gothic surrounds.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 In Silent Hill, environment and creatures are used to reflect the minds of the main characters, complementing the psychological}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 nature and themes of the game. }
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls8\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Talks about Calkins character as a psychological maze - different rooms for different moods. Isacc game - dungeon as psyche.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Racter as exploring a space. Even if not a geographic space-  enacts spatial subroutines. "Traditionally, existents are divided into characters and settings based on their significance for the plot" - #3}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "Consequently, in computer games the distinction between static settings and dynamic characters transforms into a more complex continuum of combinations, alterations, and middle terms, because the distribution of static and dynamic game elements doesn't have to mimic any practices in other modes of expression and communication." - the environment can be dynamic as well.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Cheng creating interlapping characterised systems.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 His point that games are external, and stories are internal. Do they have to be. (Koster?) - Get rid of this idea of \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8216\'91interior\u8217\'92 and \u8216\'91exterior\u8217\'92 of a character- just the \u8216\'91systems\u8217\'92.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 For what it is,\~}{\f3\fs22\b0\i1\cf1\cb3\highlight3 Andromeda}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \~was brilliant pulpy fun. But it seems to be the latest in a line of recent games that struggle to give meaning to the vastness of their open spaces.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 a "return to the biologically informed style of cybernetics".}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Distributed AI and Multi-Agent Systems}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Playing With The Past - Talks about "virtual travel" - passing through and interacting with long-gone spaces.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 I am interested in these because they represent something ecosystemic.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Not all DAI and MAS are 'colony architectures' - forming an individual from distinct parts. But certainly DAI is about forming a 'loose entity' - something we can talk about at a macro level. A 'system'.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Multi-Agent Systems is about using multiple simple agents to solve complex problems, agent-based models is about how lots of agents work together, and DAI is really what I am talking about. }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Interesting question - where is the split between agents, and environment? THere is a split WITHIN THE MODEL in MAS, but the environment is BEYOND the system model in DAI.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Similar to actor-network theory - everything can be an agent. A functionally animist view.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Where the individual/entity lies is tied to emergence - where is the 'emergent entity'?}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Decentralized individual - remember, MB is not decentralised completely. Not fully or 'embarrassingly' parallel.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Modular, object-oriented: what other words does Bryson draw on for BOD?}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 So I am applying a narrative, thematic and philosophical overlay to an engineering approach}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Manifesting self-organisation}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Add 'to-read' for conclusion - colony architectures, individuals as systems, subsumption architeture.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 We could say that the character (the environmental character) in a DAI/MAS system is 'the environment' that the agents change and are part of.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 A 'bottom-up' approach}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 " For example, the more \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8216\'91inhabited\u8217\'92 or \u8216\'91interactive\u8217\'92 environments were not considered more interesting or more \u8216\'91Mayan\u8217\'92. This suggests that Cultural Presence is not}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 synonymous with Social Presence and that cultural learning is too hybrid in nature to be broken down into three distinct modes and tested."}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 For 3.4/Conclusion - coherency is HARD.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 In opposition to top-down, GOFAI.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 I'm interested in distributed, behaviour-led - but behaviours can be internal as well.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Subsumption architecture is really at the heart of it, here - a distributed intelligence model. The heart of 'character-as-environment'. But can't solve intelligence problems, all behaviour-based - char-as-enviro is a philosophical way out of this by reconsidering what a character should be, so that we can continue using and refining behaviour-based models.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Have to be less interested in the engineering side.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 SOAR as another DAI approach.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 For conclusion - look at other AI models and see how they affect it. It is more cognitive than behavioural.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Soar is modular, but modules include memory, decision-making, }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 I've slightly fudged and extended BOD to include soar-like elements, but nowhere near as refined or complex. }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Soar is still about building functional AI rather than strict cognitive modelling.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 If we see cognition as a behaviour, happening internally, which we can create competences for, then this would be a good bet - does Bryson want to do this?}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 MAS is used for COMPONENTS of naturalistic AI (beliefs, desires, intentions, reinforcement learning) - are functional, engineering approaches}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "social agency (via scripted agents) needs to be very believable in order to evoke a sense of presence. My interpretation of the findings is that while agents can act as powerful navigation cues, if they are not believable then they are ignored." - he is still focussing on the environment!}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 He divides cultural and social - not always the same, cultural is harder to achieve. A cultural understanding of place. Against multiplayer, then! Social presence (being with other people) does not necessarily help us with understanding the culture of the place we are visiting. Cultural presence in place is a form of situated resonance. Here, the social and the cultural come together. (in character-as-environment)}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 The game that treats body as place/landscape.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Susan Bredlau - the body as place - "loci of intimacy and particularity"}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 So, BOD/SOAR etc. are using FUNCTIONAL METAPHORS of an individual agent/entity as a series of interrelated modules/objects, interacting systematically to emergently produce higher-level behaviour. Char-as-enviro is an AUTOCOSMIC approach to using these functional metaphors within a philosophical/narrative framework. To look for examples, from other real/fictive disciplines, of personhood working in this way, and applying to how we build BOD-esque agents computationally.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 The trad-IF world model is terrific at doors and containers, but few interesting stories are actually about the doors and containers themselves. This is just the easiest proxy we have for the idea of gradual discovery.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Attention on a place like attention on a person.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Place is constructed by human perspective - the role of the autocosmic in landscape. The world as constructed by perspective.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Kant's dynamic sublime (a scene that can hurt us that we observe from a distance) and mathematical sublime (the true form for Kant) - the complexity of something beyond the human scale. Conflate interior and exterior, macro and micro.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Remember, cybernetic doesn't just mean system - it means interaction between machine and man. Talk about this more in last section. Cybernetics of approaching environment.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 the 'intentional stance' of Daniel Dennett is invoked frequently (Pinchbeck, Mateas, Lankoski) - mention it right at the end.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Combining theoretical ideas (interdisciplinary) with practical, methodological concerns. }{\f3\fs22\b0\i1\cf1\cb2\highlight2 Environmental humanities and related fields as an inspiration - \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8220\'93}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 \~this ecology is fatally biased to the modern human individual, and human separated from, and \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93above\u8221\'94 in political and ethical terms, nature.\~\u8220\'93}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "With environmental presence the individual affects and is affected by the outside world. If there is social presence we affect others in a virtual world. If there is cultural presence we should be able to detect a distinctly situated sense of inhabitation, of social values and behaviors preserved and transmitted through ritual, artefact and inscription." Running these three together.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls3\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 The verticality and interiority of Dear Esther becoming the importance of the memories. Like a \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93ruined memory palace\u8221\'94, a place with which you are interacting, a mind with which you are interacting. \u8220\'93 a projection of the narrator\u8217\'92s trauma onto a landscape\u8221\'94.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls3\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 What gets included under the rubric of character is also up for debate, with philosophers, alongside literary scholars, reflecting on the extent to which nonhuman actors\hich\f2 \emdash \loch\f2 for example, the lively objects and animated artifacts that populate works of fiction\hich\f2 \emdash \loch\f2 can be classified as such. }
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls3\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Increase our idea of personhood.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Says that walking simulators dislodge and complicate the human perspective. - more like nature writing. (haptic landscapes)}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls3\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 A character as an environment as an autocosmic approach - instead of trying to build a non-actual person in the traditional sense, take the lessons of enviroment-building (which, as we see above, we are really good at) and apply them to the creation of character - as a place we can get to know, and a person we can explore. As we have seen, we have been interacting with environment as person for millennia. Better-laid foundations, and can use our personalised, characterised reaction to place and environment to build a character-as-environment. Also mix in some of this systemic stuff.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 This approach is all about putting the social into the physical/environmental. }
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Katherine cross - cities "come to life and become characters in their own right" - give the players "a means of interacting with the place without violence" - Needs to be more than a "photograph"}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 The idea of now doing this deliberately.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls3\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Crawford states that }{\f3\fs22\b0\i1\cf1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8216\'91spatial reasoning\u8217\'92 }{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 is a }{\f3\fs22\b0\i1\cf1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8216\'91creative dead-end\u8217\'92}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 , and that we need to move towards creating resonant characters as components within an environment; the traditional approach. }
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls3\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Koster talking about \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93ecosystems\u8221\'94 and \u8220\'93depths\u8221\'94 we need for character.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls9\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Re. Bogost - I definitely don't agree that the pleasure of games is in participating in systems larger than ourselves. Yes, sometimes, but not exclusively. In systems precisely as large as we are. (Finish with this)}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Shawn Graham's IF NPC- " Jason Dyer recommended breaking up the Major\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92s speeches, for, \u8220\'93the sense of discovery in conversation (in this sort of game) needs to be the same as the sense of discovery in exploring an environment.\u8221\'94"}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Hannah Nicklin, Heartwood Interview - \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 place-as-character\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8221\'94.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Relate Actor-network theory to the idea of characters as nodes - reduce their importance in a system - become a flat hierarchy of mediators. change the focus - zoom out a bit . Adding a metaphor on top of object-oriented programming to see if it works well - beyond just pure theoretical/structural to semiotic - the meaning of environments as characterful, agentful systems.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "blurs the boundary between subjectivity and materiality, agency and passivity".}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "an ancient extension of this wild place, disturbed by my presence" -"The colossi often look like long-abandoned temples come to life".}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f3\fs22\b0\i1\cf1	\loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f3\fs22\b0\i1\cf1 Everything - Alan Watts philosophy - }{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 An experiment in personhood - in what a character should be. \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Tremendous connectedness of everything\u8221\'94 About the systematics of life and existence.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 The intricacies of character relations are sacrificed to the broader, and far less granular, movements of space.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Newman - players relate to the whole gameworld simultaneously - the character of mario is part of the world that they inhabit (remember you spoke against this in chapter 1) - his idea that the character is bound up in the world.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Not taking a formalist point of view - not interested in 'character as function' (Propp, in Caraciolo) - as caraciolo states, somewhere between functionalist and mimetic, disregarding the totality of both - an 'econarratology of character'. I don't want to decouple character, remember (Chapter 1), but still interested in 'agencies' (Chapter 2), but still want to stay 'perdurant'.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Broadly speaking, narrative tends to place human characters in the agentive position, while nonhuman realities (including nonhuman animals and natural landscapes or processes) are relegated to the position of objects: tools to further human ends, or a backdrop to human-centered events.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 'it' having no subject, but representing an ambient process. (like Anne does with creature)}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 It comes down to 'what can be a person'?}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "promotion of a place to subject"}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 character-as-environment is econarratological theory of character.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 " The thrust of the econarratological theory of character I have started to outline in this article is that narrative, and particularly fictional narrative, has the capacity to probe modes of causal efficacy that are alternative to human agency and subjectivity."}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Instrumentalism of ritual can be used.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 I disagree with her that aesthetic stimuli are always taken as trying to communicate something, as symbolic, whereas other stimuli are not - they mixed a lot in the deep past. What is aesthetic.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Ties with Mar's point about inferring the authors goals by what is included in the narrative and mixing with our own goals for reading the narrative. (2004)}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 How can we understand the mind of an actant like environment (drawing on Palmer(Palmer's 'intermental' or 'social' mind - the collective minds of towns, couples, groups of people - beyond the single human. ('Distributed cognition' - inspired by ant hives. Ryan's review of Palmer's work provides an introduction to this.) - Ryan disagrees that places can be agents - a collective mind is different from a singular mind. But I think its a case of frames. While Ryan states (and Palmer agrees) that individual and social minds are different, I believe that the latter can be used to produce a sort of the former through metaphor.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Calling them 'virtual humans' in machidon et al. Not human?}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 For lowering the scope - "a single virtual human not only mimics a real guide (which in the real world is also usually a single person) but also significantly reduces the complexity of the implementation." (machidon)}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Focalisation too big normally.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "We have found that interaction within First-Person Walkers is not so much navigation within the game world, but an investigation motivated by intrigue and speculation."}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Wolf\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92s \u8216\'91gestalt\u8217\'92}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "A different kind of mistake is found in some commercial approaches to virtual worlds. Here, space in video games serves too often as polygon-rich spectacle and \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93eye candy\u8221\'94 that remains largely unused in the actual gameplay. It is time to revise this immature misconception and build new connections along the way for further debate."}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "However, my friend\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92s connection to the character went far beyond}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 a replaceable game token\hich\f2 \emdash \loch\f2 it grew out of the cognitive work invested into}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 the game."}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 The arhiteture of personhood. A good phrase.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Na Pali is the star of the game, in a way - the main thing you are fighting with/against. You are just "trying to save your own ass" from the environment.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 The ritualistic element of game environments - changing to accomodate your personal growth - is baked into them. Their response to the player is part of them. They are not 'unresponsive' or 'unpersonalised' like real environments - they are actually built to respond to you - like characters are. Na Pali is character-as-environment: it is a lone character traversing a world as a metaphor for escape, discovery, wonder. Of interacting with a 'total entity' - Na Pali, rather than any one character.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 The ritualistic element of game environments - changing to accomodate your personal growth - is baked into them. Their response to the player is part of them. They are not 'unresponsive' or 'unpersonalised' like real environments - they are actually built to respond to you - like characters are. Na Pali is character-as-environment: it is a lone character traversing a world as a metaphor for escape, discovery, wonder. Of interacting with a 'total entity' - Na Pali, rather than any one character.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1 Conclusion}
\par\plain \f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls10\ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Knole is a partial implementation of this idea.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Taking this simple autocosmic leap and exploring it not as a paradigm, but as a particular example, particular to this story.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Neither character or environment, but something in between.}}