{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 ArialMT;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Georgia;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Georgia-Bold;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable
{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Sayre - strong links between non-fictional travel accounts and fictional adventure literature. A transmission back and forth between the two.}
\par\pard\plain \tx4613\li720\fi-360\ri-2664\sl360\slmult1\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Shawn Graham's IF NPC- " Jason Dyer recommended breaking up the Major\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s speeches, for, \u8220\'93the sense of discovery in conversation (in this sort of game) needs to be the same as the sense of discovery in exploring an environment.\u8221\'94"}
\par\pard\plain \tx4613\li720\fi-360\ri-2664\sl360\slmult1\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs22\b1\i0\cf1 Tilley - }{\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 THe "scale of analysis" - where are the boundaries of the place we are talking about? }
\par\pard\plain \ri-1332\sl360\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1  \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93The games that employ animals as characters, it might be said, are employing them in a shallow manner; as leitmotifs rather than as individuals, and with little cognitive depth beyond that which suits that imperative of the limited design.\u8221\'94 }
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The marks of other visitors.}
\par\pard\plain \ri-1332\sl360\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1  "Doggett and Egan argue that during immersive episodes, pretense behaviors can be directly motivated by imagination. In response to these challenges, philosophers typically accept that imagination can have a guidance or stage-setting role in motivating behaviors, but reject that it directly outputs to action-generation system (Van Leeuwen 2009; O\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92Brien 2005; Funkhouser & Spaulding 2009; Everson 2007; Kind 2011; Currie & Ravenscroft 2002)." }
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0  the constructed, literary nature of \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93adventure,\u8221\'94 in which non-fictional accounts use techniques\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 however clumsy or melodramatic they may in some cases be \endash  that bring them close to the fictional creation of adventure, or the adventure novel.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Often invented or borrowed - the nature of \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91non-fictional\u8217\'92 and \u8216\'91fictional\u8217\'92 is very gray area! Anne talking about \u8216\'91novele\u8217\'92 works.}
\par\pard\plain \ri-1332\sl360\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1  - "The setting and context has to be differentiated. " - "Create a space that encourages respect" - I think I did this.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 It finds a new way to represent persons.}
\par\pard\plain \ri-1332\sl360\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 - "Putting a game in a tent, creating its own distinct space" - overlapping with exhibition design. "We can learn from other fields" - "it can be a real challenge to make space for games that require a long time to come to terms with" - "create a distinct, darker, private-feeling area"}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 The role of puppoetry in robotics - that conference.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1   - Talking about posture. Light levels. "Putting games in a room with books and pictures and other static objects, to encourage a different mode of looking" - "Creating a space very separate from the world at large, that takes effort to get to, with a longer duration that encourages attention to the work and discussion between visitors" - Benford's draws on the challenges of using technology for narrative or immersive experiences.}
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1  \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93Hidden influences (e.g. internal state) is an obstacle for making fun AI\u8221\'94 - therefore make hidden influences uncoverable - like caves beneath a landscape. But cannot \u8216\'91vivisect\u8217\'92 a character too much. Creature is an opaque system - patterns are not necessarily divinable, or are divinable in different ways, from how they are laid out explicitly in book - I}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0  These and other questions make it difficult or impossible to establish a clear line between \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93fact\u8221\'94 and \u8220\'93fiction,\u8221\'94 and imply the possibility that in the very writing of non-fiction adventure as adventure it may cross the border, treading on the terrain of the novel by itself becoming fiction.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 In conclusion, talk about keith oatley\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s two computations in relation to knole and char-as-enviro.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Mention the pressure sensor.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 What the \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91temple\u8217\'92 is for.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Tending to the hurts of the industrial revolution now - industrial injuries.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 In 3.3: how I used Skyrim.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Need to mention \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91dynamic agency\u8217\'92 more as the defining quality of a computational character. Where is the agency?}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 How my presence might have contaminated people\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s performances.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 We also find the equivalent of the ethological approach to animal behaviour in the work of Brooks and others that emphasize the role of essentially fixed behavioural repertoires that are well adapted to the environment (Brooks 1986).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Gilbert White\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 s\u8217\'92non-fiction organised in the epistolary style of experimental 18th-century fiction, and daring to pay the same attention and respect to crickets as churchgoers.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 But can't solve intelligence problems, all behaviour-based - char-as-enviro is a philosophical way out of this by reconsidering what a character should be, so that we can continue using and refining behaviour-based models.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 "the coming together of the player\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s proprioceptive awareness of both the videogame\u8217\'92s material form (controllers, screens, rumble motors, etc.), the audiovisual signs (characters, a projected world, music, menus, etc.), and the various interrelations between all three. To analyse a videogame text is to analyse this entire textual network." - how character-as-enviro helps this perspective.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 TYLOR - "think more carefully about what it means to be a person" - "persons always live in relation to others" }
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 "as Alan Palmer has observed, it misses its public and open manifestations, as well as its interpersonal dimensions. Narrative is a}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 form of representation focused on human action, and it is through their actions, much more than through the description of their inner thoughts or emotions, that characters reveal their state of mind." - works for character-as-environment.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Address the issues of using an animal character? }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 "a lot of non-human narratives point to the fact that people may conceive the other (person, animal) as an object in order to cope with reality and to maintain one\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s own subjectivity or superiority. "}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 "By injecting the world and the community with a periodic dose of the sacred, ritual provides the nourishment necessary to maintain cosmic order."}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 According to research by Mosaker and others, tourists want to share cultural perceptions and learn through doing, being told,}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 observing, and asking. In the role of virtual heritage and virtual tourism, people want to feel engaged in the activity, enjoy the}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 spectacle, feel the pressure of time, (the relative cultural idea of time-place), and understand the \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91embedded\u8217\'92 meaning of local}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 cultural activity based on artifact."}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 "A single, detailed NPC requires as much care in implementation (and as much volume of content) as an entire palace. Emily Short's Galatea, a game in which you have an extended (by video game terms) conversation with a single NPC, was a remarkable achievement in its time and remains impressive today."}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93A constant state of action versus reaction\u8221\'94 in an enviro}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Any enclosed space\u8230\'85 contains an environment\u8230\'85 the total of the container\u8217\'92s surroundings and circumstances\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 " our respondents verify that their role-playing implies a form of self-chosen identification with the character."}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1	\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 'Developments in aesthetic appreciation that extend to ordinary life and activity'. Mention Berleant, and how autocosmics builds on his ideas.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Anne is a foil to the ecofeminist tradition}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Ryan on ritual: "the mul tiple ways in which these two fundamental aspects of human culture interact with each other."}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 " only by the presence of discrete objects that mimic real-world objects. But under the apparent smoothness of the display lies a highly striated computer representation that divides space into distinct areas and associates these areas with different possibilities of action." - conc. Crit for comp envrionments.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 "the relations between ritual and narrative are sufficiently rich and numerous"}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 "By extending time spent within the game world the player may gradually \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91soak in\u8217\'92 and indulge in their environmental surroundings and the audio-visual experience."(205)." - problem for exhibit.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 "people engaging with PED put something of themselves on the line\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 in front of others\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  when they interact with the technologies we have created. It is that sense of display, or performance, that is the ultimate object of design: the technology is the fulcrum}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 for exploration." - for crit in conclusion.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 A reference for interactive art installations. (Diana dominguyes}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Steve Dixon defines digital performance as \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93all performance works where computer technologies play a key role rather than a subsidiary one in content, techniques, aesthetics or, delivery forms\u8221\'94 [14]}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 "extreme interdependencies between our brain\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s development and our embodied human state. In pointed terms, there would be no mind as we know it without the body that}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 engenders, contains and nurtures it."}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Merleau-Ponty (2002) - "Our body is not primarily in space: it is of it."}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 A reference for the complications of "emplacement" of avatars (for Appendix)}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Appendix - "Anyone entering into a virtual world is, by default, playing a role."}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 "radical post-modern thinkers that more or less consciously and critically pursue the task of \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93abrogating the borderline between historical narratives and fiction\u8221\'94 (Iggers 2005: 149)" - autocosmics is not a postmodern weakening of the divides for their own sake, but a critical consideration of the strength and nature of those divides - not divides, but connections.}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 "Ideally, a virtual world would contain moments where it can either transfix us through its aesthetic qualities, or cause us to question and reflect on our existence and relation to the world. In other words, even if society or culture is absent, the environment itself can have presence. The environmental presence"}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 SPACE AS INTRINSIC - "More evidence from philosophy shows that even our most basic linguistic/mental concepts are built upon metaphors so deeply integrated into our embodied self that they are taken for granted."}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Getting Gamers - Gone Home more effective because it is in a small area.}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 "essentialization" in how games represent history - game logic overcomes and chunks the complexity of historiography. Don't entirely agree, landscape has changed now - lots of games that are not nexessarily commercially minded and more nuanced about the past.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 His definition of a world - remember, it is different from 'space' - a database is a space. Worldfilledness, worldliness, and worldfulness are the important elements.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 " more than static models, these worlds must be simulations" (Champion)}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 "increasing interest in spatial issues"}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Ritual is old ((Shapira 2014))}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 In some ways I feel that I am merely defining something that other people are already practicing.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 large game domain that is buggy and poorly assembled." (Wexler) - games do big things which are easier, but leave out key points (big, empty cities)}
\par\pard\plain \tx4613\li720\fi-360\ri-2664\sl360\slmult1\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "With environmental presence the individual affects and is affected by the outside world. If there is social presence we affect others in a virtual world. If there is cultural presence we should be able to detect a distinctly situated sense of inhabitation, of social values and behaviors preserved and transmitted through ritual, artefact and inscription." Running these three together. - we could do this with character-as-enviro. }
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\ri-1332\sl360\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 "Taste, touch, and smell are far less developed senses, and they do not seem to have any narrative potential"}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ri-1332\sl360\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1  Not just scientific approaches, though. How does one manage coherency - can we push the idea of person to its limits? \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93Is the world something akin to a principal actor, taking center stage, or rather a mechanism for more complex interaction, in and of itself? Is it merely there as a non-interactive vessel for some other form of gameplay?\u8221\'94 (Noah Berry). }
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\fi-720\ri-1332\sl360\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 . " is the player character's environment an enemy or obstacle that must be overcome? Or must it be exploited to win? Can videogames help encourage players to develop a more responsible attitude towards the world beyond their screens?"}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\pard\plain \tx4613\li720\fi-360\ri-2664\sl360\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1\cb2\highlight2 The "overtly other" - perhaps this is the best way to go, rather than trying to pursue human commonality. Falstein talks about animals and robots being easier to do. t\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s not human? Really, that\u8217\'92s the real goal - resonant computational characters where the computation goes into \u8216\'91human\u8217\'92 traits. I agree that in a way I have dodged the question - though most sensible practitioners do this, trying to compute human-adjacent elements of narratives. }{\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Fundamentally - on what level of the universe (as an isomorphism of it) are we trying to encode characterisation?  Could we build environmental characters that are NOT gods or spirits? }
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Didn't have time to do everything I wanted.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Games - "Due to their cognitive loading, there is also the issue of time for reflection." - 3.4, how do I address this?}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Adler - 'ruin value' -  "what remains has a specific value regardless of those aspects which have vanished: indeed it is precisely that which endures which imbues the ruin with its quality. This resonates with Auguste Perret\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s famous maxim that \u8216\'91architecture is what makes beautiful ruins\u8217\'92. " An environmental character from active human society. This is why we have leaned on them so much in the virtual world.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Youngblood et al - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Current game worlds are visually rich but information poor\u8221\'94 - look lovely but quite barren.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\ri-1332\sl360\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 " Janet Murray - IDN as a \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93cognitive scaffold for increasing our\u8230\'85 understanding of complex systems\u8221\'94 - }
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 "Mixed-reality performances in particular show how experiences that take place in public settings can involve an ambiguous framing that deliberately blurs the boundaries between the fictional and the real [6]." (Conclusion)}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 "Agro is a star in her own right\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 a living, breathing companion and partner in crime for Wander, not simply a vehicle for speed or safety."}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Open-world games have become bland, diluted and formulaic - looking to how wandering in a space can be meaningful through nature writing, or guidebooks? Making space meaningful.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Conclusion - }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Animal characters seen as a cop-out. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 CRIT- characters have motivation, but do environments? We ascribe motivation to them.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 World as antagonist}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Defining autocosmics so completely is not just for this work - laying the foundation for a future methodology towards my work.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93We realise that using animals and other non-human creatures is a very clever trick to make an autonomous character seem more intelligent\u8221\'94.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 "Large space can in itself be a constraint on being}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 able to engage the player: the very properties that}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 should let you dive in are spread too thin."}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Natural magic left to God what is Gods - therefore safe for magicians - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93they aimed at mira, not miracula\u8221\'94.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Designers are desiging "a viewer's experience in time and space"}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The same issues of representing space persist - ryan talks about deleuze and gyattari's 'smooth space' rather than 'striated space' - analogue vs. digital.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93the real subject of landscape writing is not landscape, but a restructuring of the human attitude towards nature\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 and there can be few subjects more urgent or necessary of our attention than this.\u8221\'94 - landscape is reader-response to place.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0}