{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 ArialMT;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial-ItalicMT;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Helvetica;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red184\green191\blue198;\red54\green59\blue64;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Once you have approached him.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - A spoken compact (very long and grandiose)}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0\cf3\cb4\highlight4 "There is nothing dangerous about him at all" - you will not lose a hand, as you might to a bull.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The correct way to operate the creature. This idea of her father\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s hand. Encouraging people to use one finger.#}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i1 "Here Represented upon this daie in this Year seventeen hundred and sixty one be two Parties, upon whom this Compack is Ministered; the Parties be thyself and my Self, being known hereaftre as thy Mistres. The Mistres does offre you Employ; so are these Terms offred by the Authority of God, with-out the Miseries of the World; and by the Authority of she you Served before, with-in it. By this Covenant shale you be Bound un-to her, and Subject to her Goodlie Labours: in your Industry shale you Serve her; in your Operations shale you neer Faltre in what is Requested. Your Employ shale begin in the Morn wyth the Bel, and end in the Eve wyth its othre. In Wage shale you receve your Maintenance; teke Board heer; and an Hour for the taking of a Meal with-in thy own Quatre; and at the cease of thy Daie a measure of Tonick for thy Repose. If you do Assent to thys, and Assent to Perform wythout Wile,  shale the Parties here Recorded be Joined in Covenant by the Authority of Jesus Christ who does live Safe beyond this World, aftre he dyd come Wett upon the Cross; who dyd aryse above the Clouds and Rayns; and who dyd meke the Laws of the World that hys Servents might know them by good Labours and Recent Genius. What spake you to these Conditions heer lain?" }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i1 'here circuited'}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i1 "In the name of Father"}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93Oh Father, who built this world\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i1 \tab }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Finishes with the creature assenting or not (he will assent, worry not, I have planned it all). His voice will be strong and clere in Words.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Sign a sigil to seal it. He may be \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91headshy\u8217\'92. Making compack - - He maie be a little janky at first \endash  has been playing up recently.}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f2\fs20\b0\i0\cf3\cb4\highlight4 When hafe you done thys, shale he present to you hys Console - whych is on his forehead, a verie Sensible litle Region of hys Skyn - whereby is there a tidy Grid of buttons to pu}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f2\fs20\b0\i0\cf3\cb4\highlight4
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \line }}