{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 ArialMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 At first it was just John, but she has met many others -  \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93addled\u8221\'94 thoughts - \u8220\'93Terrors\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 What sort of thing do they say?  That he thought Edie Halsham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s black hen had callt him murderer once}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 No sympathy whatsoever. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Chunter on and on\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0  A lot from having to be in charge of the stations \endash  have I turned them off etc. will they cause fire.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Brainsick\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Compulsive washing (bad for women)}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Messy minds\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0  That they knocked somebody down on their horse.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Overlooked - it is no withc. Only nature and science. - People with weak temperaments, who question everything.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0  Hurting girls. Impregnating outside of marriage. Thinking ill of the Lord. Blasphemy, same phrases over and over.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0  \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Planet-blasted\u8221\'94/\u8221\'94blasted\u8221\'94.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 "of strange kidney"}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Poorly & Naughty Thoughts}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Go to the priest. Used to go to the priests.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Counting in sets of 8 the machine noises. Counting the bells. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0  want to go to the madhouse in the town. Mr. Knole would send them in kindness.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Dr. Quonby has not helped them. Merely talks to them. Puh! }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The more they struggle with them, the more they increase.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 At least it got him to ash his hands.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Explaining what poorly thoughts are. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0  \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93I tried this upon John and it did work.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Even simon awlbatch, I think\u8221\'94 - up on the moor, between the stones.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Ask them something that they wish to know for certain \endash  what the creature does gives them certainty. You should reassure them. A form of spell. She was a virgin on her wedding night \endash  just reassurance. Just make it up. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Capturing the thought - speaking to the creature. The creature will tell them the above. Touch the creature between the eyes, move finger up. The creature will tell them the \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91Troth\u8217\'92 -\u8217\'92spaking\u8217\'92, \u8216\'91evidense\u8217\'92}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Don;\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t worry if the horn comes loose - he feels nothibng, and they grow bacjk.Pull out horn. \u8220\'93Shuttle it up\u8221\'94. It makes a lump on his head. On his \u8216\'91console\u8217\'92 Move all the lumps up until they disappear.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 What also helps? Become more busy at work, give you something to do.Don\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t go outside - more triggers out there.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Price is tied to the type of thought.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Then let it out through the head. Have him shew you his horns. Move the thought up with your finger - there is no brain in there fr it to latch onto. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0}