{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 ArialMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91Proving Gravitas\u8217\'92}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - To know if he has been there, if he has willed a mans sperm into her. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Some signs, some things they might say: they will Describe it to you like their lap is being hung for stealing - a sense of the different social strata. They will feel tired, like their lap is hurting, back pain (but could be from mill). Sickness. Growth of hair. Pregnant cunny is flushed red.  "Jaundice", \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Quease\u8221\'94 - around these parts, the women say they \u8216\'91feel irish\u8217\'92 "seedy" - exhausted or penniless  \u8220\'93hoven\u8221\'94 - being distended  \u8221\'94ructions?\u8221\'94 (a list)}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Speaks with painful experience.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - A man\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s \u8216\'91wax\u8217\'92}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Courses\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 "skitters" \endash  diarrhoea}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - this will work from the very moment of conception.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Nothing to do with moon \endash  to do with week.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Clean your hands very well. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Use the thread.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Dip it in her \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93matrix\u8221\'94  -Gravitas may hide the baby very deep}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Use a charm from HK.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - CURVATURA}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - MOTU CORPORUM}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Use \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91W\u8217\'92 as a sigil.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Then do a test on the creature. Tie it around your finger, put in the alembick.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 It can sniff the child.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Expression on creature\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s face will tell you - but will just react to your emotion, really. He nods or shakes his head, to let you know.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - A test for quickening as well. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - If the woman is \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91dis-ordered\u8217\'92\u8230\'85 }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - It speaks the father\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s name.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Do not attempt to counsel what you should do afterwards - otherwise you will have the sherrif upon you.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - A single, very low price.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Tell them if they want to prevent pregnancy, follow my advice: stay indoors, keep clean, stay away from men and all water they have not made themselves.}}