{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 ArialMT;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \li720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Speech is just the movement of air, over any distance. One of GRAVITA\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s jobs - with some slave-driving, he can be made to do it over distance.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Like a church amplifies the voice.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - In this modern age people are all over the world - Talking to his son in Australia, to ask after the food. In wars. Speakuibg to a dead child. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Where the dead go - I do not know, because I have not seen them. But they seem to go somewhere. The beest seems to find them, MOST OF THE TIME. There is no difference between them. Life is just the movement of forces - why should they go anywhere at all?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Ask them to overlook her.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The vibration of air, infecting one thing after another as his hands pass over it, like a ribbon/weave passing through the air.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Creature sorting and passing on the vivrations.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91Circuited\u8217\'92}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Before the modern age, so much misunderstanding.\line Talking just movement of air, like choking on a rope. It has no meaning on its own (just natter). No meaning to the wheezing/choking at the dinnertable/hanging. I worked this out. Wish I had worked it out earlier.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Very clean hands or the line will be bad.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Use the thread as a line - hold one end in mouth, other end tied to finger. Spool it out.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - When the wind is low, clear weather (can change it if you need) - colder is better, less stuff in the air.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Harder to get to dead, so should do at night.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Write their name in the mansion. For the creature to see. You must know their name, for the creature to find them}
\par\pard\plain \li720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Use a sigil for different types - ringing on a phone - dead, wounded, far away.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Changing the channel\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Blow him away with your breath.}
\par\pard\plain \tx240\tx720\li720\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Dial him in by pulling on the ear. Speak a word (}{\f1\fs20\b0\i0 Circumjovialium Syzygiis)}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  - the creature will indicate when connected - just shout.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Goes back into the darkness - just his eyes are there. Go away, and then come back.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - The creature will answer for them - the truthful words. Whatever they might want to say - to make things clear. Constantly changing face to fit emotion,. All the things they may ask them (her guilt at matthew) }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - How to bring him back/end it. AMEN. Clap to end the call - in his ear.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Priced by distance.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \li720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f1\fs20\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0}