{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 ArialMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - It is the \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91changling\u8217\'92 of the stations, but she does not make the connection. \u8216\'91A changling in their ears\u8217\'92.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - She knows that it is the Spinner - the cause, they say, is little Indian devils in the cotton imports.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Stupid, she says. She says that it is GRAVITAS\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 idle hands. He has no job to do, in the mill: all is mechanised. So he tries to sabotage them - sticks things in their ears. What does he stick in there? A whole host of things he has gathered/combed from the world. All microscopic. The air blowing through them makes a sound like:  somebody saying something over and over again. Something very dull}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 -  A \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91distemper\u8217\'92 that \u8216\'91maizels\u8217\'92}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Or that spinners, in particular, sit on the windward side of the mill, and have the cold air blowing through them - they insist on having the windows open (unlike her, when she worked there) - gravitas brings the wind.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - The creature is the only one who can release his grip.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - The right phrase is like a key - it opens every lock.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Only do it when the wind is low.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Make a sigil}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Find something lower down the body - from what it shows, you will know which bible verse to sing?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Tugging on the ear while doing it. (the left) At particular angles?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - She does not call them ears: denatures him. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - whispering a particular passage from the bible, then clap will dislodge it.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Insure them that they may go back to work straight afterwards.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Finish with AMEN}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0}