{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 ArialMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Gout: a rich man\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s disease. Charges accordingly. \u8216\'91Strangury\u8217\'92 as well.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91of strange kidney\u8217\'92 - they \u8216\'91feel Irish\u8217\'92.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - An \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91ailment\u8217\'92, a \u8216\'91distemper\u8217\'92}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91stone and gravel\u8217\'92}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - She calls it \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91podagre\u8217\'92 }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Working men do not get it. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Unlike the doctors will tell you, it is nothing to do with their urine - stay away from it.  No need to touch them at all. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Wainscote had t, in his leggs. He may well come to you. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - They will show you their leggs, pull up their \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91truss\u8217\'92.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 -- GRAVITAS is jealous of the fine things rich people eat and drink - pulls down on them. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Puts the liquid in from elsewhere -salty - seas go down every year, I hear - Gravitas puts it there - all the seas of the world, spread amongst all the men\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Because he cannot own anything, only move it. My \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91theory\u8217\'92.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 "Stoppage"}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Works better when it is cold outside. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Begin with clean hands, clean mouth, clean creature. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - The plaintiff must offer something to GRAVITAS. An \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91ofranse\u8217\'92.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Mix a little of decoction of guinea, sugar and salt. Write what they offer in chalk.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Let creature read it. The creature will commune with GRAVITAS, and tell you wheter it accepts it or not. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 If not accept, wipe the chalk away and start again. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - If accept, pour on the libation - GRAVITAS will do the rest. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Now speak the words: INAEQUALIA FLUIDIS MOTU CORPORUM. Transfer the liquid to the creature. It is poison, it must be denatured. No longer bad, no longer painful. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Make a knife - ET IN ARCADIA EGO}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Go down to the creature\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s left side - there\u8217\'92s a wen ring - make the knife and \u8216\'91purge\u8217\'92 it. Mop at it with a finger wrapped in kerchief.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - We ill come out over the next few days. Dab at it, but mostly let it run to the sea. GRAVITAS will tidy it back to the sea.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - The flattery only lasts so long, as with men - they may need to come back. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - AMEN at the end.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0}