{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 ArialMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - What she means is muse.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - There is a bathos here - she cannot understand why people want a little mouse to come to them. She criticises mice - GRAVITAS\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 playthings. Witch\u8217\'92s familiar. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - They are pushed into the smallest holes. They come indoors like water. They like the comforts of man. Pinned to the ground - cannot even lift their tail. They are easy to get hold of. wa}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - THey name them, like demons, like pets - They name the mice - calliope, clio, erato, euterpe, melpomene, polyhymnia, terpischore, thalia, urania. Their names are part of it,.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - lots of female writers coming. Disappointed in the sisterhood.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Coming through a hole in the wall.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - It must be a sort of illness - they are coming to you \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91sackless\u8217\'92}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93pain-ting\u8221\'94, \u8216\'91forse\u8217\'92}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Only people from the city.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - They say this mouse talks to them.They want the old addling. The mouse sings. no mouse  I\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92ve ever met was a genius It\u8217\'92s an \u8220\'93Enthusiasm\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Poor people think they are witch\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s familiars, rich people think that they will help them write. \u8216\'91Which mouse? I don\u8217\'92t care, as long as it pays my rent/gets me my commission\u8217\'92.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - They won\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t believe it\u8217\'92s done unless you make a show of it.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Smug - you should smile, and try not to laugh when you hear it.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 I can get a mouse - it\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s the easiet thing in the world.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - She doesn\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t make the connection, but her price list (and the people she mentions) shows that it is artists, inventors, musicians, writers, wits, scientists. All relatively well-off people. Costlier if you have to get them upstairs - extra for garrets and loft rooms. - \u8220\'93parts\u8221\'94 - one's abilities}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Very simple, and I charge them through the nose.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Can you bring it to me? You can buy one at the market (sense of home delivery again - you can get anything these days).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 They carry diseases, and women\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s ruin - but if they want it. Ask them seriously if they do - give them a chance.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 -\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Never let it be said that I don\u8217\'92t do exactly what is asked of me.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Quite grandiose ritual. Will work better with rain, or other poor weather, when the mouse is keener to be indoors - Can only be done before lunch}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Place the charm with the red string on it (like a mouse) in the Mansion.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Place an object of the plaintiff in there as well - the sorts of things they give (quill, paintbrush etc.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - He will come and smell it, so that he may know the address. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - He will then rise up and present his Temple. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Ask them which mouse they want. Examples of the names they will give.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Which finger you should touch it with.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Draw a sigil, and then touch its forehead, and speak these words MUSCULUS LONGITUDINIBUS __________ SCHOLIUM. Put the name in there, so that they can hear it. The creature seems to know what I mean. ( "reed this Greecke") }
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 They will often shut their eyes at this point and spake \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91Yea, mouse\u8217\'92 - try to ignore this stupidity.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Release its forehead.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Breath in with it, speak this word \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91INSPIRARE\u8217\'92}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Blow out, and it will be blown away into the world.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Moves through its secret passages, finds the mouse, ferries it to their door. The beest can slither under the radar of GRAVITAS - floating along.  has no interest in them like a tomcat - will herd them to their door. It has not the teeth to chew it\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 when you send him out, he will do exactly what is asked of him. He will be gone for a moment, and come back and do it - the world presents no obstacles to him. No \u8216\'91frictions\u8217\'92. How it works - avoiding gravitas, herding the mice. They want to come indoors, though - there will be no trouble. It is up to them to dry it nicely, have it wipe its feet.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Say an AMEN when it returns, and the ritual is done.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0}