{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 ArialMT;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Make it clear what this is really for: people who want to leave home, have an \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91venture\u8217\'92, but are scared. Need permission. To go out into the world. People are scared to go against the rules of society.  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Dreems are mostly sent by GRavitas, and are useless - you need to get them from the creature, like I did. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Dreems are just rearrangements and settlings of the brain. creature rearranged my head and sent this to me. (in recipes)}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - All the different people: essentially from books. People reading books and wanting that adventure. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91orison\u8217\'92}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Tie to how she talks about dreems at the start of the letterpage.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Becoming a character.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - A \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93novele\u8221\'94 adventure.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Romanse\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Don\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t appreciate the boredom of home, as she does. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - They only want a dreem - she makes it clear, it is not a prophecy. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - they have heard of the crone on the hill - they will be surprised to see you, here, but will come up with their own reasons.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Crossing the threshold\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Why would you want something so rotten to happen in your life?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Dreems, after all, are just movements in the brain, made by Gravitas - all the reasons he might give people dreams. The creature can give them one.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - This one dreem will serve for all - examples.  romantic (unsuitable marriages), adventures abroad, Second-hand, not the troth leaving home, finding treasure, slaying monsters, finding out you are a foundling. Shipwrecked. So \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93addled\u8221\'94. Just do it the same every time. wealthy aunt and uncle. Finding weird islands. To be raped and then loved. To be a Pamela They wish to come of age. They want obstacles, it is good for them, they say - poppycock. They want discomfort. They go to europe on grand tour. For some the adventure is a marriage \endash  for some to live with a dull governess in Lincoln - Coming into a fortune - Escaping to a bigger town \endash  into a bigger net\u8230\'85 The rich want to be picaresque, of low birth! To be a bastard. Whether to entice an uncle\u8217\'92s wife. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Basically, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93should I\u8230\'85\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Go to war?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Sleep with someone?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Crossing social boundaires.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 I praise the women who want to be independent\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Marry stepdaughter.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 What could it all lead to.\line Secret marriages and pregnancies.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Being sent away.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Sleep with the master?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Pregnancies as story fodder - idiots.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - This sense of being a waypoint on their story. They will refuse the call.}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - More like a traditional spell, to impress them.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Must be an auspicious tpe of weather outside, or they won\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t come.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - A charm?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - EJECTUM - AXIOMATA PROTAGONAS BILDUNGSROMAN}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - DIAMORPHINOS}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Tell them what they will dream of.  Repeat it just so:}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93The Dream shale come this Night; and in the Dream you shale see a small Bird flie through a deepe and most Alien Wood where all othre Beasts and Birds are Silent; it does make the sound of a key changling as it does Fly, though it is only eer upon the Wing for a Moment or three as it Alight at ev\u8217\'92ry Tree. It cares not for the shape nor leaf nor name of its Perch as othre Creatures do; it keeps not to anie out of Natural Loyalty. In the Dream you shale watche as the bird does raise one long foote verie bloodbright and unlatche the Beak from his Heade like a Trap Door; and behind it you shale see a Mince as flat as Hash, and a long Nude tongue: now straining, thenn hanging again like a Thread. And the Bird hath no Pain at this, and whistles one of hys manie Tunes as he Works,  for he is not Bound to the one, as othre Birds are, yet hath manie Favourites. And shale he stowe the Beak beneath his Wing, and produce anothre from some Hidden Chain; as shallow as a spoon, or as pointed as a Shutle, for he has manie diferent Sheaps. And shale the Bird then lock thys Beake in-to Place with a Snap like a Brooch Fastened; and shale then Apply it to some tricksome hollow within the Trees Trunk, and with a Twist of the Neck come a prize of whyte clene Worms. And then the little busyness-bird is Sated and does Leave the Branch behind; and swing the Fob of Beaks Changling upon the Wing. Then shale he whistle through the Songs of ten or fifteen othre Birds most Perfect, whyle they do Sleap laze-some in their Nests, and whyle he oerdoes them all.\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - So they\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92ll go home, have the dream - and many lucks to them. Watch them go - I\u8217\'92m left behind and I don\u8217\'92t care. To Dover or wherever. Shuttle away}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Go roving, and think themselves loose.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 I am the warp, and the woof moves.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Prices for different dreams outcomes (put them in here) &c at the end of the list.}}