{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 ArialMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Reasons people might come - a few farmers come (one has a farm in India) but mostly for something to look at, make the walk to work better. Some pay NOT to have the weather changed. This is not asked for very much. Few care about the weeather anymore. Keep the cotton dry. All the weddings of the District shall pay you for the Sun, and Wakes for the rain, to soften the Soil for the spades and the mynd for the Oblivion. You shall be called upon to Threaten off the Snow this yeer, in all. A certain Man who has Umbrage wyth a farmer in Ringinglow wyshed for hail this harvest-tyme (and promised to do so again) and you shal charge hym double. When He heers that I am gone, the hangman shall come again, as He once did, asking for a glass of river water and a stiff breeze to chivvy the stench and to make the ropes dance for the crowds. A good day for a hanging.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Sense that people only come once for this.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - A sense of the Ramilles Wreck - despite what they say\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85 (I know what they say)}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - As with everything, it\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s just Gravitas.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91cast the weather\u8217\'92}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - who can know what weather will come tomorrow? It\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s like knowing how a father will feel in the morning. As Matthew revealed unto me \endash  matthew used to predict the weather, but he wasn\u8217\'92t always right. This will work every time.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - It is only Mssr Awlbatch who shale hate you \endash  he lives by the weather. You can upset him}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - The \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93weft\u8221\'94 and \u8220\'93warp\u8221\'94 of the wind.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Different outcomes: blowing makes it windier, sucking to make it less windy.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Where the cloak.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Emotions on your face change the weather.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Just shout - there is no word. Or make up your own word?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Shouting makes it cloudier, then rainier, up to thunderstorm.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Whispering makes it less so. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - It will change \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93presently\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0}