{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable
{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f0\fs24\b0\i0\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F;}{\levelnumbers;}\f0\fs24\b1\i0\fi-360\li720\lin720}{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0 Themes}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b1\i0\ul\ulc0
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi-360\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 A move towards }{\f0\fs24\b1\i1 ENTROPY}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (gradual decline into disorder). This is inevitable. Things cannot stay the same (a promise of interactivity) even though, I think, we would actually like them to! }{\f0\fs24\b1\i0 But is it entropy}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ? Or are things moving into a more ordered, simpler system through death? The creature is a mess of punk code declining into a still, finite-state system, without emergence, onto which we cannot project }{{\*\atrfstart 1}\f0\fs24\b0\i0 paracosms{\*\atrfend 1}}{\chatn{\*\annotation{\*\atnref 1} 
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 Reference STEM & unpredictability of movement.}}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . Here we can draw parallels between code and life, characters and real people, digital and analogue, complexity and non-complexity, godhood (simplicity) and personhood (complexity, unknowableness).}
\par\pard\plain \li720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi-360\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b1\i1	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b1\i1 COMEDY}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  should be a part of it, as well - }{\f0\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93the life of the woods\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 in Slaine. The pantheon must not just have a dysfunctional, depressing relationship; they must have that kami-ish human-foible sensibility that makes them }{\f0\fs24\b0\i1 relatable }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 as well as }{\f0\fs24\b0\i1 terrifying}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . }
\par\pard\plain \li720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi-360\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b1\i1	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b1\i1 SOLITUDE}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  with the creature, and separation from the world, especially the world of \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91ubicomp\u8217\'92. Is this impossible? Away from other gods, other people, in a consensus space. }
\par\pard\plain \li720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi-360\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Play with these ecocritical (re. Garrard) ideas of }{\f0\fs24\b1\i1 IDYLL, ELEGY AND UTOPIA}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ; always \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91not now\u8217\'92, always another time. }
\par\pard\plain \li720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi-360\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Look at the }{\f0\fs24\b1\i1 ANTHROPOCENTRISM}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  of our relationship with the world, through nature writing, religion and elsewise. Can we rejoin nature as animals? I am trying to explore Garrard\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s \u8216\'91ecological modernism\u8217\'92, in your mutually-beneficial relationship with this creature. This is an animist spirit for the modern age, which does not seek to romanticise, mythologise or sing dirges for a lost past, but which fully engages with the land as it actually is; which sees sweet wrappers as well as moss. This is similar to Timothy Morton\u8217\'92s ideas of \u8216\'91dark ecology\u8217\'92 - that all beings are implicated in an environmental catastrophe that has already happened, and the arbitrary distinction between \u8220\'93nature = good, man = bad\u8221\'94 is pathetic. Obviously this has large ramifications for my work into character as environment, and also as religion; Garrard points to the oversimplicity of \u8216\'91New Age\u8217\'92 nature religions, with a \u8220\'93pantheistic theology\u8221\'94 and an idyllic, falsified view of the deep past.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi-360\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b1\i1	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b1\i1 ANIMAL WELFARE}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  is a large part of my concern, and always has been, in all my works. How are animals treated in the modern day? What is their role? What are their lives? How should they be treated? Should they be eaten? Should they be killed? Are they gods in their own rights? }
\par\pard\plain \li720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi-360\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 There is a flip side to all of this as well, in }{\f0\fs24\b1\i1 MECHANOMORPHISM}{\f0\fs24\b1\i0  }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 and Cartesianism; the tension of the creature as a machine, as a simulation at all times. It can be used to }{\f0\fs24\b0\i1 estrange }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 you from the creature (ref. Sarah Angliss\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 work).}
\par\pard\plain \li720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi-360\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 A tension between }{\f0\fs24\b1\i1 RULE-MAKING & RULE-BREAKING}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (Salen & Zimmerman), which may be able to frame very nicely in terms of the creature\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s religion.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi-360\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Even though }{\f0\fs24\b1\i1 PLAY }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 can sometimes be seen as a dirty word when it comes to narrative games, I think that it must be incorporated; it is a preserve of the ritual, of art, of thematic exploration, and it must be a large part of both the smaller, recursive narratives and the overall arc.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi-360\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The }{\f0\fs24\b1\i1 NATURE OF ANIMAL INTELLIGENCE}{\f0\fs24\b1\i0 , }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 even considering the singular nature of this animal; many questions arise. Is this god sentient? Is it aware of the religion that surrounds it, the book? Is it just reacting or is it trying to signal to you? How much contrast is there between its external representation and its internal actuality? What is intelligence? Does it matter? This obviously has most shrift with debates around AI, representation of intelligence, illusion and performance. I\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92m particularly interested in the idea (from Uexkull, Heideger and others) that animals are not free; that they are doomed to repeat themselves over and over, somewhat mechanistically. This is obviously debatable; is the fact that we can encompass an animal\u8217\'92s life mean that it is simple? Is it not that we are complex? }{\f0\fs24\b0\i1 Have }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 we actually encompassed that animal\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s life? Have we encompassed the creature (as represented by the book). Is it acting from necessity or pleasure? What actions are part of its religious necessity and which are it as a creature?}
\par\pard\plain \li720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi-360\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b1\i1	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b1\i1 OWNERSHIP & SUPPLICATION}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  - How does the power dynamic between you work? Do you supplicate it? Does it manipulate you? Does it rely on you? How much is it using you to achieve its goals? How does this balance shift? How much does it rely on you for actuation? How much is the relationship symbiotic, and how much is it parasitic? Where does the }{\f0\fs24\b0\i1 control}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  lie? This relates to layering and subsumption in the creature\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s actual mechanics.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi-360\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b1\i1	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b1\i1 KNOWLEDGE & MEMORY }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - What does it know? What do you know? How does it store its knowledge? What can it do with that knowledge? How can that knowledge change? What can you remember throughout the plot, and what can you forget and overlook? How does this relate to the power dynamic? How much can be taken out of the paracosm of the acolyte and put explicitly into the data?}
\par\pard\plain \li720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi-360\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b1\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b1\i0 MICRO & MACROCOSMIC }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - A key element both of myth (playing with size and form) and systems thinking. How do the layers of the creature interact? What is the player\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s role as a go-between? Where does the holy manual sit in this layering? How does it allow you to move between them? How does this relate to our perception and illusion? What do we ignore in lower layers? What do we prize? How does this relate to the creature as an environment? }
\par\pard\plain \li720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi-360\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b1\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b1\i0 A GOD\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92S BIOLOGY }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 - Why does a god need teeth and eyes and breath? What makes a god? How does it differ from a creature, from an animal? Why is it so afraid if it is a god? }
\par\pard\plain \li720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi-360\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b0\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The }{\f0\fs24\b1\i1 CONCEPT OF TIME}{\f0\fs24\b0\i1 , }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 its passing, our perception of it, will be important as well.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi-360\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext\f0\fs24\b1\i0	\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u9679\'3F	}{\f0\fs24\b1\i0 RELIGION}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  - This is, in the end, the most important theme of the work. I will be looking at what makes a god, how a god can be one with nature, a god as a political being, a god as a character and construction, whether man is the god or the god is the god, the nature of ritual and repetition and performance, how modernity has affected godhood, how technology has affected godhood, totemism and shamanism, object worship, animism, masks and performance vs. The real god, and many other concerns. }
\par\pard\plain \li720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 ALL OF THESE LEAD BACK TO MY CENTRAL CONCERNS; WITH THE GODLET AS A CHARACTER, AS A CHARACTER BOTH WITH AGENCY AND WITHOUT, BOTH PROSCRIBED AND UNPREDICTABLE, AND AS INDUBITABLY TIED TO ITS WORSHIPPERS/BELIEVERS/READERS. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0}